Using the Sony DSC-F707


Record Mode

Since the lens is fully enclosed and doesn't need to extend, the F707 is ready to go in just 2 seconds after you turn it on. When you depress the shutter release halfway, the focus is locked in a second or so (depending on what the subject is). Depressing the button all the way results in the photo being taken with almost no lag.

Considering the size of the images, shot-to-shot speed is excellent on the F707. You'll wait roughly 1.5 seconds before you can take another shot, even at the highest quality. The longest delay is when a TIFF file (14 MB) is written, and that's just over 40 seconds (the camera is locked up during that time).

Like I said at the beginning of the review, the 16MB Stick is too small, so you'll probably want to pick up a larger one.

The F707's menu system is pretty simple, since many functions are buttons rather than menu choices. Let's take a look at the various menu items and what they do:

ISO (Auto, 100, 200, 400) 
Image Size (2560 x 1920, 2560 (3:2), 2048 x 1536, 1280 x 960, 640 x 480) 
Photo Quality (Fine, Standard) 
Rec Mode (TIFF, Voice, E-Mail, Exposure Bracketing, Burst3, Normal) -- more on this below 
Flash Level (High, Normal, Low) 
Photo Effects (Solarize, Sepia, Negative Art, Off) 
Sharpness (-2 to +2) 
Here's more details on those Rec Mode choices:

TIFF: uncompressed large image - only one fits on 16MB Stick. 
Voice: Records an audio file along with a still image 
E-mail: Records a 320 x 240 image in addition to the recorded image 
Exposure bracketing: three shots in a row with different exposure compensation values (chosen in the setup menu) 
Burst3: Records three images continuously, at 2 frames/sec. 
In Setup Mode, there are a number of other options available. Here are the interesting ones:

Expanded Focus (on/off) - whether or not the image is enlarged in manual focus 
Moving Image (MPEG Movie, ClipMotion) - explained later 
Date/Time (off, date, day & time) - imprint date on images 
Digital Zoom (on/off) 
Bracket Step (1.0EV, 0.7EV, 0.3EV) - for auto bracketing function 
Redeye reduction (on/off) 
Hologram AF (on/off) 
File numbering (series, reset) 
Conversion lens (on/off) 
LCD/EVF brightness 
USB connect (normal, PTP) - put it in PTP mode for Mac OS X only. 

The camera faired very well in the usual macro test. The colors are right-on, which is nice considering how bad the lighting is in this room. You can get as close as 2 cm in wide-angle, or 90 cm in full telephoto when in macro mode.

The camera did equally well in the night shot test, taken from the usual spot on Twin Peaks. Check out the detail on the buildings both near and far. I was also impressed with just how little noise is in this shot. 

Overall, the photo quality on the F707 was stellar. Where the Coolpix 950 was the benchmark for photo quality a few years ago, I think the F707 will be the new benchmark going forward -- at least for a while. I've got a ton of photos to back this up too -- check out the Yosemite gallery as well as the double-size standard gallery! The last photo in the Yosemite gallery was the only photo with really noticeable chromatic aberrations.

