Using the Nikon Coolpix 775


Record Mode

The Coolpix 775 takes just over 4 seconds to extend the lens and "warm up" before you can start taking pictures. Depressing the shutter release button halfway will lock the focus in about a second. When you depress the button fully, the photo is taken after a brief, but noticeable lag. The zoom lens is responsive and smooth.

Shot-to-shot speed is decent; you'll wait about 3 seconds (Fine quality) before you can take another shot. One feature that the other Coolpix cameras have that was lost here is the ability to "pause" and delete a photo right after it's taken.

While not having nearly as many choices as the CP995 for resolution and quality, the CP775 still has its share. 

While the Coolpix 775 doesn't have all the bells and whistles of its more expensive siblings, it's certainly not stripped. Here are the menu choices available:

Image Size / Quality - see chart above


White balance (Auto, Preset, Fine, Incandescent, Fluorescent, Cloudy, Speedlight) - You can shoot a white piece of paper to choose what you want to be white, using preset (manual) mode.

Continuous (Single, Continuous, Multi-shot 16) 
Continuous mode shoots at 1.5 frames/sec until memory buffer becomes full 
Multi-shot 16 takes 16 shots in a row and puts them into one Full sized image (like a collage)


Best Shot Selector (on/off) - take up to 10 pictures, and camera picks the sharpest one and saves it. Best for macro and low-light shots.


Exposure compensation (-2.0EV to +2.0EV, in 1/3EV increments)


Image Sharpening (Auto, normal, high, low, off)

As you can see, there's no manual control of the aperture, shutter speed, or focus. Then again, the competition doesn't really let you do this either. The Sony DSC-P50 has a limited manual focus mode -- I believe the Olympus doesn't have any manual controls.

The camera doesn't remember settings after its shut off, which I found irritating at times.

While the colors were accurate, I can't help but notice the noise in the photo. Blow up the image, and check out the red part of the figure to see what I mean.

You can get as close as 4 cm (1.6") in macro mode on the CP775.

The night shot test wasn't great either. This is a real world shot I took at Disney's California Adventure, using a flat wall as my tripod. Most cameras without exposure controls have trouble with these kinds of shots, so I wasn't surprised with what I got.

If you want another sample, here's one I took of the Bay Bridge one night (noise city!). It was shot on a tripod. To see what the PowerShot G2 took minutes before, click here.

To sum up, as far photo quality goes, I must admit that the 775 disappointed me a bit. The Coolpix 995 is pretty much set the benchmark for photo quality, and the 775's photo quality is just average amongst the competition. 

The things that stood out to me were jagged edges, and chromatic aberrations. Neither of them were terrible, but they were noticeable in many pictures. The jaggies are easy enough to see - just look at most of the photos in the gallery. Here's a sample of a photo I took in a grove of trees, which show off the chromatic aberrations (purple fringing).

This photo and many more are available in our extensive gallery, so check it out and judge for yourself.

