Using the Sony MVC-CD400


Record Mode

Startup times for the CD400 can really vary. Sometimes it's quick (4 secs), other times it can take much longer to read the CD. Once things get started, though, the camera is responsive. When you depress the shutter release button halfway, the CD400 locks focus in about a second. It may take slightly longer if Hologram AF is used. There is no noticeable shutter lag when you press the shutter release button fully. 

Sony has obviously put a lot of buffer memory in the CD400, to alleviate the slowness associated with the CD-R/RW format. As such, the delay between shots is minimal -- about a second or so, until the buffer is full (which takes some work). If you take a TIFF image, the story is different -- expect the camera to be inoperable for over a minute while the file is saved to the CD.

The newest Sony cameras have three noise reduction systems to make your pictures better. There's one for chrominance (Clear Color NR), another for luminance, and finally, one for noise (Slow Shutter NR). When shutter speeds drop below 1/2 sec, the "Slow Shutter NR" noise reduction mode kicks in. This results in a longer wait for the image to be recorded, but you'll be rewarded with a less noisy image.

The CD Mavicas use the familiar Sony "overlay-style" menu. It's easy enough to figure out. Here's what you'll find in the menus:

White Balance (Auto, Daylight, Cloudy, Fluorescent, Incandescent, Manual) - more below 
ISO (Auto, 100, 200, 400) 
Image Size (2272 x 1704, 2272 (3:2), 1600 x 1200, 1280 x 960, 640 x 480) 
Photo Quality (Fine, Standard) 
Rec Mode (TIFF, Voice, E-Mail, Exposure Bracketing, Burst 3, Normal) 
Flash Level (High, Normal, Low) 
Photo Effects (Solarize, Black & White, Sepia, Negative Art, Off) 
Sharpness (-2 to +2) 
The white balance mode has been expanded on the new CD Mavicas. No more indoor, outdoor, or hold choices. There's also a manual WB mode which will let you shoot a piece of white or gray paper -- very handy in situations where the other WB modes just won't work.

Here's more details on those Rec Mode choices:

TIFF: uncompressed large image 
Voice: Records an audio file along with a still image 
E-mail: Records a 320 x 240 image in addition to the recorded image 
Bracketing: Records three images continuously with exposure compensation values shifted (at interval selected in setup menu). 
Burst3: Records three images continuously at 2 frames/sec 

In Setup Mode, there are a number of other options available. Here are the interesting ones:

Disc Tool (finalize, format, initialize, unfinalize) - handles all those CD functions I described earlier. 
Moving Image (MPEG Movie, ClipMotion, Multi-Burst) - explained below 
Date/Time (Day & Time, Date, Off) - whether date/time is printed on your photos 
Bracket step (1EV, 0.7EV, 0.3EV) - for auto bracketing 
Digital Zoom (on/off) 
Redeye reduction (on/off) 
Hologram AF (on/off) 
File numbering (series, reset) 
Conversion lens (on/off) 
Hot shoe (on/off) 
Confirm before write (on/off) - this is new! Review a picture (and delete it if necessary) before it's saved to the CD. 
The Moving Image feature has a new addition: Multi-Burst mode. This is similar to a feature found on the Nikon Coolpix cameras. It will take 16 shots in a row and put it into one 1280 x 960. I guess it's good for analyzing your golf swing. You get to choose from several between-frame intervals -- 1/7.5 sec, 1/15 sec, and 1/30 sec. There is also a movie-like feature called ClipMotion which will take 10 images and put them into an animated GIF for you. 

Speaking of photos, let's take a look at our standard tests now to see how the CD400 fared.

With the exception of some purple fringing around the highlights, the CD400 did a fine job with our night shot. The Slow Shutter NR feature did a nice job of eliminating the noise that you'd normally get on long exposures such as this. Since the camera has full control over the aperture and shutter speed, you can get really creative.

The CD400 also produced a sharp image of our macro subject (which is about 3 inches tall), with accurate color. The minimum focus distance in macro mode is 4 cm (1.625 inches) at wide-angle, and 20 cm (7.875 inches) at telephoto.

Above is our red-eye test. The camera's red-eye reduction system didn't totally eliminate this phenomenon. It's visible, but not horrible. Many software products can remove red-eye. (Note that this image was blown up 200% so you can see the details.)

I was quite pleased with the photo quality on the CD400. After all, it is based on their excellent DSC-S85 camera. Images were properly exposed and the colors look good. Don't take my word for it, though, look at our photo gallery and make your own decision about the photo quality. This gallery is a little smaller than usual due to the large number of cameras I have at the moment.

