Using the Sony Cyber-shot DSC-P9


Record Mode

The DSC-P9 turns on, extends its lens, and is ready to go in just three seconds. Auto-focus generally takes under a second, though it can take a bit longer if the AF illuminator is used. Shutter lag is not noticeable on the P9. Shot-to-shot speed is excellent -- just over a second elapses before you can take another shot.

Sony's recent P-series cameras have three noise reduction systems to make your pictures better. There's one for chrominance (Clear Color NR), another for luminance, and finally, one for noise (Slow Shutter NR). When shutter speeds drop below 1/2 sec, the "Slow Shutter NR" noise reduction mode kicks in. This results in a longer wait for the image to be recorded, but you'll be rewarded with a less noisy image.

On the recent P-series cameras, the uncompressed TIFF mode have gone the way of the dinosaur. I'm not sure why (maybe since few people actually use it?), but it's gone now. Some of the other Record Modes seem to have disappeared as well.

The DSC-P9 uses the familiar Sony "overlay-style" menu. It's easy enough to figure out. Here's what you'll find in the menus:

Exposure Compensation (-2.0EV to +2.0EV in 1/3EV increments) 
Focus (Multi AF, Center AF, 0.5m, 1.0m, 3.0m, 7.0m, infinity) - more below 
White Balance (Auto, Daylight, Cloudy, Fluorescent, Incandescent) - lots more options here than on old models 
Spot Metering (on/off) 
ISO (Auto, 100, 200, 400) 
Image Size (2272 x 1704, 2272 (3:2), 1600 x 1200, 1280 x 960, 640 x 480) 
Photo Quality (Fine, Standard) 
Rec Mode (E-Mail, Voice, Normal) - E-mail is a 320 x 240 photo saved with a regular full size image; Voice mode lets you attach a sound clip to photos. 
Flash Level (High, Normal, Low) 
Photo Effects (Solarize, Black & White, Sepia, Negative Art, Off) 
Sharpness (-2 to +2) 
The white balance mode has been expanded on the new P-series cameras. No more indoor, outdoor, or hold choices. There are new auto-focus (AF) modes as well: multi-area and center. The multi-area is 3 points, though the camera will pick what point it focuses on. 

In Setup Mode, there are a number of other options available. Here are the interesting ones:

Moving Image (MPEG Movie, ClipMotion, Multi-Burst) - explained below 
Date/Time (Day & Time, Date, Off) - whether date/time is printed on your photos 
Digital Zoom (on/off) 
Redeye reduction (on/off) 
AF illuminator (on/off) 
File numbering (series, reset) 
LCD brightness 
The Moving Image feature has a new addition: Multi-Burst mode. This is similar to a feature found on the Nikon Coolpix cameras. It will take 16 shots in a row and put it into one 1280 x 960. I guess it's good for analyzing your golf swing. You get to choose from several between-frame intervals -- 1/7.5 sec, 1/15 sec, and 1/30 sec. . There is also a movie-like feature called ClipMotion which will take 10 images and put them into an animated GIF for you. 

I actually have a sample of the new Multi-Burst mode! Here's the official cat of the DCRP rolling around on the floor. This image was downsized.

The macro test came out nicely. The colors on this 3" subject are very saturated, and the image is sharp. The minimum distance to the subject is 50 cm at wide-angle and 60 cm at telephoto.

The night shot test is just average. Since there isn't any control of the shutter speed, you're stuck whatever the camera chooses. This shot was taken in night scene mode with an exposure time of 2 seconds, which is as slow as the P7 will shoot. It needed another second or two to let in more light. That said, there really isn't any noise to speak of here, which shows that Sony's Slow Shutter NR really works! 

The P9 did a fair job with our new redeye test. The eyes have a bit of a glow to them but it's certainly not "demonic" like on some other cameras I've used. You can clean this up a bit more on your PC, too. Note that this image was enlarged to show detail.

I was very pleased with the DSC-P9's photo quality. Images were well-exposed and colorful, and purple fringing was not a problem. And I was able to take some pretty cool action shots to boot, even without manual controls or an "action" scene mode. Take a look at the photo gallery and see if you agree!

