Using the Sony Cyber-shot DSC-P71


Record Mode

The P71 turns on and is ready to go in just over three seconds. Auto-focus usually takes under a second, though it can take a bit longer if the AF illuminator is used. Shutter lag is barely noticeable on the P71. Shot-to-shot speed is excellent -- just over a second elapses before you can take another shot.

Recently introduced Sony cameras (like the P71) have three noise reduction systems to make your pictures better. There's one for chrominance (Clear Color NR), another for luminance, and finally, one for noise (Slow Shutter NR). When shutter speeds drop below 1/2 sec, the "Slow Shutter NR" noise reduction mode kicks in. This results in a longer wait for the image to be recorded, but you'll be rewarded with a less noisy image.

On the new P-series, the uncompressed TIFF mode has gone the way of the dinosaur. I'm not sure why (maybe since few people actually use it?), but it's gone now. Most of the other Record Modes (Text, GIF, etc) seem to have disappeared as well.

The DSC-P71 uses the familiar Sony "overlay-style" menu. It's easy enough to figure out. Here's what you'll find in the menus:

Exposure Compensation (-2.0EV to +2.0EV in 1/3EV increments) 
Focus (Multi AF, Center AF, 0.5m, 1.0m, 3.0m, 7.0m, infinity) - more below 
White Balance (Auto, Daylight, Cloudy, Fluorescent, Incandescent) - lots more options here than on old models 
Spot Metering (on/off) 
ISO (Auto, 100, 200, 400) 
Image Size (2048 x 1536, 2048 (3:2), 1600 x 1200, 1280 x 960, 640 x 480) 
Photo Quality (Fine, Standard) 
Rec Mode (E-Mail, Normal) - E-mail is a 320 x 240 photo saved with a regular full size image 
Flash Level (High, Normal, Low) 
Photo Effects (Solarize, Black & White, Sepia, Negative Art, Off) 
Sharpness (-2 to +2) 
The white balance mode has been expanded on the new P-series. No more indoor, outdoor, or hold choices. Too bad there's no manual white balance. There are new auto-focus (AF) modes as well: multi-area and center. The multi-area is 3 points, though the camera will pick what point it focuses on. 

In Setup Mode, there are a number of other options available. Here are the interesting ones:

Moving Image (MPEG Movie, ClipMotion, Multi-Burst) - explained below 
Date/Time (Day & Time, Date, Off) - whether date/time is printed on your photos 
Digital Zoom (on/off) 
Redeye reduction (on/off) 
AF illuminator (on/off) 
File numbering (series, reset) 
LCD brightness 
The Moving Image feature has a new addition: Multi-Burst mode. This is similar to a feature found on the Nikon Coolpix cameras. It will take 16 shots in a row and put it into one 1280 x 960. I guess it's good for analyzing your golf swing. You get to choose from several between-frame intervals -- 1/7.5 sec, 1/15 sec, and 1/30 sec. There is also a movie-like feature called ClipMotion which will take 10 images and put them into an animated GIF for you. 

The DSC-P71 did a pretty nice job with our night shot. There isn't much noise, thanks for the Slow Shutter NR feature. It's slightly over-exposed and some purple fringing can be seen -- but overall, great stuff from a low-cost camera. (Do note that I rotated this image, as it was a bit crooked.)

The P71 also did a nice job with our usual macro subject. The subject (which is about 3 inches tall, by the way) is sharp, and the colors look good. You can get as close to the subject as 10 cm (wideangle) or 50 cm (telephoto).

The camera's built-in redeye reduction feature did a nice job, as you can see in the sample above. Do note that I blew up the sample to 200% so you can get a closer look.

I didn't get to take as many pictures as I would've liked with the P71, but the photo quality was impressive in most cases. I did have some trouble with the camera totally overexposing some shots that I took at the Escape from Alcatraz triathlon, but that was the only instance. Chromatic aberrations (purple fringing) was not a problem. Take a look at the photo gallery and judge for yourself.

