Using the Sony MVC-CD300


Record Mode

The CD300 starts up with much fanfare, and takes about 4 seconds to "boot up" before you can start taking pictures. The LCD is on by default, as you might expect on a camera without an optical viewfinder. Auto-focus speeds are a bit sluggish, taking about a second to lock focus. There's very little delay when you press the shutter release down fully before the photo is recorded. Shot-to-shot speed varies -- it's about 2 seconds if you haven't yet taken a picture, but once it's writing photos to the disc, it can be longer. Writing a TIFF file to the CD will lock up the CD300 for a whopping 50 seconds.

The CD300's menu system is pretty simple, since most functions are accessible via buttons rather than buried in the menu somewhere. Let's take a look at the various menu items and what they do:

White Balance (One-push, Auto, Indoor, Outdoor) 
ISO (Auto, 100, 200, 400) 
Image Size (2048 x 1536, 2048 (3:2), 1600 x 1200, 1280 x 960, 640 x 480) 
Photo Quality (Fine, Standard) 
Rec Mode (TIFF, Text, Voice, E-Mail, Bracketing, Burst3, Normal) -- more on this below 
Flash Level (High, Normal, Low) 
Photo Effects (Solarize, Black & White Sepia, Negative Art, Off) - you can see a few of these in the gallery 
Sharpness (-2 to +2) 
The "one-push" white balance mode is indeed a manual WB mode. Shoot a piece of white paper or whatever you want to be white, and you'll be able to get accurate color in almost any lighting. 

Here's more details on those Rec Mode choices:

TIFF: uncompressed large image 
Text: records a GIF in black & white 
Voice: Records an audio file along with a still image 
E-mail: Records a 320 x 240 image in addition to the recorded image 
Bracketing: Records three images continuously with exposure compensation values shifted (at interval selected in setup menu). 
Burst3: Records three images continuously at 0.6 sec interval 

In Setup Mode, there are a number of other options available. Here are the interesting ones:

Disc Tool (Finalize, Format, Initialize, Unfinalize) 
Scene Mode Selection (twilight, landscape, portrait) 
Moving Image (MPEG Movie, ClipMotion) - explained later 
Digital Zoom (on/off) 
Bracket Step (0.3, 0.7, 1.0EV increments) 
Red-eye reduction (on/off) 
AF illuminator (on/off) 
File numbering (series, reset) 
Conversion lens (on/off) 
LCD brightness 
USB Connect (PTP, Normal) - PTP is some new format that I don't think is supported by any OS. 

The MVC-CD300 performed admirably in our macro test, especially with the One Push manual white balance. It had some trouble with my crazy lighting in Auto and Indoor modes, but this one came out fine. You can shoot as close as 4 cm (1.625") at full wide-angle in macro mode. 

The nightshot test turned out very well. There's no "artificial stars" in the sky, the colors of the building's lights are correct, and it's nice and sharp. Well done! (For those of you playing along at home: the SF skyline isn't nearly as lit up as it once way, due to the power crisis. Take a look at the Transamerica Pyramid towards the right... it didn't use to be so dark.)

I was very pleased with the photo quality of the CD300 -- it was excellent. Don't take my word for it - check out the CD300 photo gallery and judge for yourself.

