Two-sided design, wearability, voice feedback and colour display 

(September 04, 2002) 

Nokia THR880 TETRA phone represents cutting edge usability

Nokia today introduced the Nokia THR880 TETRA radio terminal at the Tampere Safety and Security Expo in Finland. The new two-sided design sets new standards for usability and durability for professional users. The Nokia THR880 is expected to start shipping in the first quarter, 2003. 

"With its usability and features, the new Nokia THR880 terminal is the leading product on the market, proving our expertise in meeting the needs of an extremely demanding customer segment, public safety users. Nokia is a strong advocate of the TETRA standard and is committed to continuously developing its TETRA products," said Kenneth Björklund, Director TETRA terminals, Nokia Mobile Phones. 

The new, unique two-sided design of the Nokia THR880 gives users the possibility to choose the way of communication: on one side is the phone for phone calls, messaging and for access to the menu; on the other side is the radio, optimized for group communications. The phone comes with a high-resolution color display and clear display symbols, making it easier to read and access information. 

The Nokia THR880 radio has an extensive range of group communication features that allow efficient and easy management of joint work between groups. The new rotary group selector makes group selection and changing between frequently used groups easy and fast. With a new folder system incorporated into the Nokia THR880, 1300 different talk groups can be programmed into the phone. Groups can be devided into folders, for example according to geographical usage areas. The "Back Key" in the middle of the group selector easily returns the user to a previously used group or to a home group. 

The new "Fast Menu Key" and "Duty Key" make selection of the most often used functions quick and straightforward. The "Fast Menu Key" and "Duty Key" provide access to calling to a home group, sending a predefined message or turning on/off DMO with just a single press of the button, for example. 

Another new feature of the Nokia THR880 is voice feedback, which guides users and confirms their selections, freeing hands and eyes to focus on the task at hand. 

The accessories for the Nokia THR880 include an active wearable holder that makes the radio part of any work outfit. In the active holder, the radio is easily accessible, allowing direct access to the radio controls without additional microphones or loudspeakers. Other accessories include an active car kit for hands-free operation, a desktop stand, travel charger and cigarette lighter charger. The robust accessory connector allows other manufacturers to adapt their professional accessories and peripherals to the Nokia THR880. 

The data capabilities of this robust, shock, dust and water-resistant TETRA terminal include WAP deployment and IP Packet Data capabilities. Direct mode operation (DMO) and Dynamic Group Number Assignment (DGNA) are also part of the total offering. 

TETRA (Terrestrial Trunked Radio) is the only open digital trunked radio standard defined by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) to meet the needs of the most demanding professional mobile radio users. 
Nokia is the world leader in mobile communications. Backed by its experience, innovation, user-friendliness and secure solutions, the company has become the leading supplier of mobile phones and a leading supplier of mobile, fixed broadband and IP networks. By adding mobility to the Internet Nokia creates new opportunities for companies and further enriches the daily lives of people. Nokia is a broadly held company with listings on six major exchanges. 

