Snow in the Mediterranean? Totally Board heads south 

(September 05, 2002) 

Marseille to host fourth Nokia Totally Board event on September 7

Snowboarders, freestyle skiers, skateboarders, BMXers and inline skaters will all converge on Marseille, France for the fourth annual Nokia Totally Board event on Saturday, September 7. The event brings together a selection of top athletes and the latest in rap, hip-hop, drum & bass and rock near Marseille's Old Port on the coast of the Mediterranean. 

"Totally Board is a great combination of sports and music, bringing the best of both to the south of France this year," said Pekka Rantala, Vice President, Marketing Services, Nokia Mobile Phones, Europe and Africa. "We are pleased to be able to sponsor such an exciting event." 

A 25-meter high ramp, covered in 300 tons of snow, will act as a playground for dozens of riders competing in the Big Air event. A vertical ramp will allow skateboarders, BMXers and inline skaters to see who can clock the most air. Playing for the crowd will be hot bands like Kosheen, ROHFF, Idlewild and Psy 4 de la Rime. DJs such as DJEL, DJ Get Down, DJ Snipe and DJ Soon will entertain with their slick sounds and smooth rhythms. 

During the event, the audience will be able to SMS chat non-stop with their mobile phones and messages will be displayed on huge SMS chat boards. Guerilla photographers will also be wandering through the crowd with Nokia imaging phones, taking pictures and sending the results to the giant MMS board at the event. 

Club Nokia, Nokia's online community for Nokia phone owners, will be present with a member's tent, Nokia digital content and games. Club Nokia offers exclusive services to owners of Nokia mobile phones in the Europe and Africa region. The Club Nokia web and wap services can be accessed once a user's Nokia phone is registered with Club Nokia. 

A related press conference will take place on Friday, September 6 at 15.00 CET. To listen to an audiocast of the press conference, please visit www.nokia.com/press at that time. Visitors should have Real Player 8.0 installed. 
