Nokia to supply German telecom operator HanseNet with DX 220 switching equipment 

(September 04, 2002) 



  
Nokia and German operator HanseNet Telekommunikation GmbH have signed a frame agreement for the supply of the Nokia DX 220 digital switching platform for HanseNet¡¯s Hamburg city network. Technical support and maintenance service for the next ten years are also included. Deliveries have already started, and the system is scheduled to go live this month.
 
Cooperation between Nokia Networks and HanseNet goes back to 1998 when Nokia supplied the first DX 220 switches to the Hamburg-based city carrier. The new DX 220 supply agreement now allows HanseNet to further expand this infrastructure base.
 
 "As the number of our customers constantly grows we required additional switching equipment," said Stefan Bachthaler, Technology and Operations Director, HanseNet, "Nokia demonstrated a high-level competence in installing this switch and handling the project."
 
Petra Rennings, HanseNet Account Manager, Nokia Networks, points out the numerous benefits of the Nokia switching solution; ¡°The DX 220 switching platform supports fixed network applications from PSTN/ISDN to Intelligent Networks and also offers a growth path to broadband applications,¡± she says.
 
HanseNet Telekommunikation GmbH, founded 1995, is one of the leading regional telecommunications providers in Germany. The company operates a fibre optic city network of more than 900 km within the economic area of Hamburg and offers broadband net access via the Internet Protocol (IP), Internet services and telecommunication services as well as fixed and data connections to its more than 50,000 customers. Priority is given to individual solutions and fast market launch. This allows Hamburg's business and private customers to benefit from excellent quality and first-class service. 
 
HanseNet Telekommunikation GmbH's shareholders are e.Biscom S.p.A., Milan holding 80% and Hamburgische Electricitäts-Werke (HEW) holding 20% of the shares.
 
Nokia is the world leader in mobile communications. Backed by its experience, innovation, user-friendliness and secure solutions, the company has become the leading supplier of mobile phones and a leading supplier of mobile, fixed broadband and IP networks. By adding mobility to the Internet Nokia creates new opportunities for companies and further enriches the daily lives of people. Nokia is a broadly held company with listings on six major exchanges.