Now do you see what I'm talking about? 

(September 18, 2002) 

Design students use MMS to explore the way we communicate

Nokia and Contra Publishing today announced the launch of see what I'm talking about?, a book exploring how multimedia messaging (MMS) is changing the way in which we communicate. Four design students at the Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design in London were given a sneak preview of the MMS future, by trying out the Nokia 7650 imaging phone several weeks before its commercial launch. They created an MMS community in Europe and documented their experience in a new book. 

In preparing for the launch of MMS enabled phones, Nokia loaned several Nokia 7650 phones to their advertising agency, Contra, as research tools. Four Central Saint Martins students - Jo Jackson, Harriet Banks, Tom Vernon-Kell, and Rory Brady - then approached Contra with an idea for an MMS related book, and got the green light from both Contra and Nokia to produce one using the Nokia 7650 phones. 

"It was exciting to be among the first to use the technology, and to experiment with it as a new design tool and communication medium. What's more, we've successfully documented the birth of a new mode of expression, and that's pretty cool," said Jo Jackson. The students' experiences are documented in see what I'm talking about?, which has been printed by Contra Publishing. The book is structured as a timeline and presents a visual and textual dialogue, illustrating the multidimensionality of MMS messaging. 

The Nokia 7650 phone has an integrated VGA camera that allows users to take and send multimedia messages, incorporating color images, text and sound. The students shared messages with one another for four weeks and created a new mobile community based on instant multimedia messaging. 

Contra CEO Antti Ohrling said: "As an ad agency, we were drawn by the idea that multimedia messaging could be used as a base for creating new, interactive communities. This project shows that when you combine talent with technology and innovation, the results are inspiring." 

Designed to be an experiment in social interaction, the students found that whereas many forms of electronic communication tend to abbreviate and limit shared experiences, the imaging phones accomplished the opposite: "It expanded and enhanced our ability to express ourselves and share that. It puts the human back in e-form communications," said Harriet Banks. 

Christian From, Senior Marketing Manager, Nokia said, "We felt this project was a great opportunity to see what would happen when four visually talented young people were given MMS phones to use as they please. And the results are far more exciting than we anticipated. This book is a good illustration of how rich MMS is as a communication means." 

For further information on see what i'm talking about? and updates on its availability, please visit the web site www.seewhatimtalkingabout.com 
