Vodafone Ireland picks Nokia as the sole supplier for its 3G network 

(September 27, 2002) 



Ireland¡¯s leading mobile operator, Vodafone Ireland and Nokia have signed an agreement for the supply of Nokia¡¯s WCDMA 3G solution.  Deliveries begin in October, and under the agreement, Nokia will provide both 3G core and radio-access network equipment for the smooth roll-out and introduction of Vodafone Ireland¡¯s nationwide WCDMA network.  
 
In addition to network equipment, Nokia will provide installation, commissioning, integration and project management services for efficient network ramp-up, and a wide range of care services to maintain the competitiveness of the network.  
 
¡°3G is a cornerstone of our advanced mobile service strategy,¡± says Fergal Kelly, CTO, Vodafone Ireland  ¡°Which is why we are totally committed to rolling out the best possible 3G system.  We are confident that Nokia¡¯s 3G solution provides technologically superior service and will meet our needs for cost-efficient and effective 3G service roll-out.¡±  
 
¡°With this announcement, Vodafone is continuing to build its strong global 3G presence,¡± says Paul Reddy, Head of Business Development, Nokia Networks, Ireland.  ¡°We are pleased that ¨C for this important next step ¨C Vodafone has chosen Nokia¡¯s WCDMA solution.  We feel the trust that Vodafone Ireland is placing in Nokia is based not only on the reliability and quality of our solutions, but also on Nokia¡¯s vision of an innovative communications future for Vodafone Ireland¡¯s customers.¡±  
 
WCDMA 3G is bringing advanced multimedia mobile services, such as multimedia messaging, mobile entertainment, mobile location services, corporate services, and m-commerce, to the mass market of telecommunication consumers.  
 
Nokia is the world leader in mobile communications.  Backed by its experience, innovation, user-friendliness and secure solutions, the company has become the leading supplier of mobile phones and a leading supplier of mobile, fixed broadband and IP networks.  By adding mobility to the Internet, Nokia creates new opportunities for companies and further enriches the daily lives of people.  Nokia is one of the most broadly held companies in the world with listings on six major exchanges.  