Nokia tells the Emmys ¡°You Oughta Be in Pictures ¡­¡± 

(September 23, 2002) 

New stylish phones capture the excitement of the Emmys with color display and ability to take and view photos

  
LOS ANGELES (September 23, 2002) ¨C Nokia, the expert in mobility, captured the excitement of the 54th annual Emmys at the Shrine Auditorium last night in a revolutionary way by snapping up photos of the stars with Nokia¡¯s first product in the US to combine a digital camera with a mobile phone. Nokia also showcased its sleek Nokia 7210 Tri-Band GSM phone* ¨C which can view digital photos and utilize them as screensavers and wallpaper -- by congratulating the winners of the top eight categories with a photo of their winning moment on their new Nokia 7210 phone.
 
¡°Images on phones and color displays will revolutionize the way we communicate,¡± said Randy Roberts, director of imaging for Nokia Americas.  ¡°The ability to snap and share moments like the Emmy¡¯s allows people to share their personal experiences in real time.  And most importantly, taking pictures with a mobile phone is fun and easy to do.¡±
 
To instantly "share a moment", the Nokia 3650 phone includes an integrated VGA camera, a large color display, and a unique circular keypad reminiscent of a rotary-dial telephone.  The Nokia 3650 phone also incorporates a video recorder for capturing video clips, as well as a RealOne Player for downloading and playing or real-time streaming of video content.  Users can send video clips, images, text and sound via MMS (Multimedia Messaging Service) to an e-mail address or another MMS compatible phone.  Further fun enhancements to the phone include Nokia digital services such as new games, new ring tunes and graphical wallpaper (similar to computer desktop designs).  The Nokia 3650 phone will be available globally in early 2003.  
 
The Nokia 7210 phone has a daring new keypad design, color screen, MMS capability** and an FM radio.  It will be available in the US starting in October for approximately $300.
 
As the exclusive mobility sponsor of the Emmys, Nokia also contributed its 7210 mobile phone to the famous and luxurious gift baskets given to the evening¡¯s presenters.  Exclusive Nokia 3650 photos of the red carpet and back stage are available for viewing on www.nokiausa.com/about/whatsnew.
 
* Tri-band GSM phone works on GSM networks in approximately 140 countries and gives you the ability to stay in touch even as you trot around the globe. GSM network coverage and roaming ability is operator dependent and not available in all countries or areas.
 
** MMS features and services are dependent on the mobile wireless provider¡¯s network and compatibility of the devices used and the digital content formats they support.
 
Note:  The Nokia 3650 phone has not been authorized as required by the rules of the Federal Communications Commission. This device is not, and may not be, offered for sale or lease, or sold or leased, until authorization is obtained. Nokia is in the process of obtaining such authorization.
 
About Nokia
Nokia is the world leader in mobile communications. Backed by its experience, innovation, user-friendliness and secure solutions, the company has become the leading supplier of mobile phones and a leading supplier of mobile, fixed and IP networks. By adding mobility to the Internet Nokia creates new opportunities for companies and further enriches the daily lives of people. Nokia is a broadly held company with listings on six major exchanges. 
 
