Greek operator COSMOTE launches MMS with Nokia's end-to-end solution 

(September 09, 2002) 



Nokia has helped bring advanced messaging to the Greek market, with the launch of COSMOTE's multimedia service on September 5th. Nokia has supplied COSMOTE, the number-one mobile operator in Greece, with a complete end-to-end multimedia messaging (MMS) solution, including the Nokia MMS Center, Nokia Multimedia Terminal Gateway, Nokia WAP Gateway and Nokia Profile Server. 

The MMS system supplied by Nokia allows COSMOTE customers to send and receive rich messages containing text, images, graphics, voice, and audio clips. 

"Exploitation of cutting-edge technology for the constant enhancement of our services portfolio is an inseparable part of our strategic planning," says Evangelos Martigopoulos, Managing Director of COSMOTE, the leading mobile operator in Greece. "Our key aim is to satisfy our customers' needs and reinforce their loyalty, while at the same time create new revenue streams. COSMOTE's up-to-date unique track record in providing value-added services allows us to have confidence that MMS will be adopted by the market very successfully. MMS is one step forward in wireless communication, and more importantly one step closer to the next generation services" 

"We are very pleased to be working with COSMOTE to bring MMS to Greece. COSMOTE has been pioneering technologies for advanced mobile services since 1997," says Ilari Salomaa, Director, Nokia Networks. "Our cooperation has been long and rewarding, and we know that COSMOTE customers will benefit from the services that we are helping COSMOTE to offer." 

Multimedia messages can be sent between MMS-capable phones or even to legacy phones, thanks to the Nokia Multimedia Terminal Gateway. The Nokia solution provides content storage, voice messaging over MMS, intelligent connectivity to e-mail, and rich push/pull applications among other services. 

Nokia has among the wireless industry's most extensive track record in MMS with close to 30 customers to date and an ever-growing number of launched systems, making multimedia messaging a reality for today's mobile consumers. 