Fifth Nokia Snowboard FIS World Cup to start on September 12 

(August 27, 2002) 



  
The Fifth Nokia Snowboard FIS World Cup will start on September 12 in Valle Nevado, Chile. Visiting ten countries on four continents, the World Cup has athletes from 37 nations competing throughout the season. Nokia renewed its sponsorship agreement last year for three years, with an optional fourth year.
 
"As the title sponsor of the Nokia Snowboard FIS World Cup for the fifth year running, we are excited about the coming season. It promises to be a thrilling one, with a full schedule of events. The Big Air Competitions - introduced to great success last year - are continuing with eight competitions, bringing snowboarding closer to the general public,¡± said Isto Pankakoski, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Nokia Mobile Phones, Europe and Africa.  ¡°We are also sponsoring riders from around the globe who will no doubt inspire us with their efforts. We extend our best wishes to the riders, coaches and tour staff and look forward to an amazing year.¡±
 
With the success of snowboarding at the Salt Lake City Winter Olympics earlier this year, the fifth Nokia Snowboard FIS World Cup aims to attract even more people to this sport.  With a lifestyle and culture all of its own, snowboarding has become one of most popular winter sports in the world. 
 
The Nokia Snowboard FIS World Cup includes the disciplines of Halfpipe, Snowboard Cross, Parallel Slalom, Parallel Giant Slalom and Big Air, which take place in cities. The World Cup will finish on March 16, 2003 in Arosa, Switzerland. 
 
Nokia is the world leader in mobile communications. Backed by its experience, innovation, user-friendliness and secure solutions, the company has become the leading supplier of mobile phones and a leading supplier of mobile, fixed and IP networks. By adding mobility to the Internet Nokia creates new opportunities for companies and further enriches the daily lives of people. Nokia is a broadly held company with listings on six major exchanges. 
