Nokia boosts ADSL network capacity and service for Finnish operator Auria 

(September 06, 2002) 

Nokia and Redback score win in their strategic collaboration on the intelligent edge.

Auria Group, the number-three telecom operator in Finland, has chosen Nokia to expand and improve its broadband network. The agreement between the two companies continues Nokia's long-standing relationship with Auria in broadband networks and services. 

Nokia will provide second-generation broadband equipment that will enhance Auria's existing service by making possible streaming video, as well as digital television and video service. In the future, Auria customers can change the speed of their broadband service from their own computer. 

Under the agreement, Nokia will supply a range of broadband network infrastructure, including the Nokia D50 and D500 digital subscriber line access multiplexers (DSLAMs), the Nokia NetAct for Broadband, and the high-capacity Redback?SMS(TM) 10000 subscriber management systems (SMS), purpose-built to enhance Auria's existing SMS and service-creation platform. Nokia will also provide comprehensive maintenance of the equipment. Deliveries will begin immediately. 

The agreement with Auria represents the first delivery of a Nokia end-to-end broadband system following the announcement of Nokia's strategic cooperation with Redback in May 2002. The Nokia-Redback cooperation encompasses the delivery, development and support of Nokia's intelligent edge solutions that enable network operators and service providers to build multi-service broadband networks capable of delivering high-value broadband services. 

The Nokia-Redback solution will allow Auria to increase subscriber capacity, streamline network operations and subscriber management, in addition to providing new services such as video on demand and digital broadcast TV services. 

Auria Group is the third biggest telecom concern in Finland, with an estimated turnover of about 136 million euros in 2002. 
