Nokia wins GSM expansion deal from Jiangxi MCC valued at 70 million USD 

(September 12, 2002) 

The two companies also form closer ties through a strategic cooperation partnership.

  
Jiangxi MCC and Nokia have signed a supply contract for the expansion of the Chinese mobile operator¡¯s GSM network in Jiangxi province.  The expansion agreement is valued at approximately 70 million USD. Equipment deliveries, which include both GSM core and radio access network infrastructure and Nokia¡¯s operations support system (OSS) solution, are already underway.   
 
Under the contract, GSM coverage and network quality in Jiangxi province will be greatly enhanced, and the city of Yingtan was added to the coverage served by Nokia equipment, which shows wider recognition and adoption of Nokia network systems by customers in the province. 
 
In addition to network equipment, Nokia will provide network planning, installation, and project management for efficient network ramp-up, as well as radio, switching and GPRS optimization services for enhancing data transfer rates and network quality.  A wide range of care services, including software maintenance, will help maintain the competitiveness of the network. 
 
Nokia and Jiangxi MCC also have agreed to further strengthen their long-term strategic partnership with a memorandum of understanding.  
 
"We are pleased with level of cooperation we have enjoyed with Nokia in the past and are working to continue this partnership,¡± says Huang Rigao, General Manager, Jiangxi MCC. ¡°The memorandum of understanding we have just signed with Nokia will strengthen and deepen our cooperation on all levels, including closer strategy discussions, joint development of new services, cooperation on network quality and evolution, and management trainings.¡±  
 
¡°We are pleased to have the opportunity to work even closer with Jiangxi MCC, one of the most advanced mobile operators in China,¡± says David Ho, Vice President, Nokia Networks China.  ¡°Not only does the expansion deal continue and broaden Nokia¡¯s long-term relationship with Jiangxi, but our partnership agreement establishes the framework for great mutual benefits between our companies and paving the way for bringing the latest technologies and solutions to Jiangxi province in the future.  We look forward to fruitful cooperation now and tomorrow.¡±
 
¡°Moreover, this contract demonstrates in concrete terms Nokia's committed service support for Jiangxi MCC.  As well as supplying innovative and reliable technology, Nokia is providing delivery and care services to help secure their technology and consumer service evolution,¡± adds David Ho.  
 
Nokia is committed to long-term development and preferred partnership in China. With innovative technology, Nokia has continuously strengthened its market position in China as a leading supplier of mobile and broadband network systems and mobile phones.  China is Nokia's second largest market.  The company's investment in China has reached EUR 2 .3 billion.  Nokia has established more than twenty offices, eight joint ventures and two R&D centers, with over 5,000 employees in China.