Nokia announces a new eye-catching imaging phone for the global marketplace 

(September 06, 2002) 

The Nokia 3650 is optimized for an easy and enjoyable imaging experience

Nokia has today unveiled a new product, the Nokia 3650 to its imaging phone category at the Nokia Totally Board event in Marseille, France and at an Asia Pacific launch event held in Singapore. With an integrated high- resolution camera, camcorder, video player and multimedia messaging* (MMS) functionality, the Nokia 3650 introduces richer visual communication worldwide. The Nokia 3650 is a tri-band mobile phone operating on 5 continents wherever GSM 900/1800/1900 networks are available. Shipments are expected to begin early 2003. 

"Nokia is pleased to add another imaging phone with the Series 60 platform to its wide range of products. Through its visual and dynamic features the Nokia 3650 expands the superior imaging experience and MMS into the global market. The Nokia 3650 is the first phone with an integrated camera to be delivered to the North America. This phone will generate a lot of excitement among consumers," said Juha Putkiranta, Senior Vice President, Imaging Business Unit, Nokia Mobile Phones. 

To instantly "share a moment", the Nokia 3650 phone includes an integrated VGA camera, a large 176x208 pixel color display with 4096 colors, and a unique circular keypad with a 5-way scroll key. The Nokia 3650 also incorporates a camcorder for capturing video clips, as well as a RealOne Player for downloading and playing or real-time streaming of video content. The MMS functionality allows users to send video clips, images, text and sound to another compatible MMS-enabled phone or to an e-mail address. The Nokia 3650 phone has extensive e-mail support and an XHTML browser that enables next generation browsing. 

The Series 60 platform on top of the Symbian OS (Operating System) offers a powerful, easy-to-use platform for the Nokia 3650 phone. Java(TM) technology allows users to personalize the content on their phone with a wide selection of third-party applications, including image editing and a variety of graphic-intense games. Developers looking to reach the Nokia 3650 phone audience can use the Series 60 Software Development Kit to build applications and Nokia Tradepoint as also Nokia Software Market to take their applications to market. More details, including free downloads of the Series 60 SDK, are available at Nokia's global developer site, www.forum.nokia.com. 

The Nokia 3650 phone users can further add the fun and excitement to their everyday communication with Nokia digital services such as new games, ring tones and graphical wallpapers. Managing, manipulating and sharing photos, and sending e-cards is fun and easy through the Photo Zone service. Continuing the theme of sharing experiences, the Nokia 3650 phone supports multi-party game play over infrared and Bluetooth. 

The Nokia 3650 phone weighs 130 g and has 4 MB internal user memory, expandable with a memory card to enable flexible storage for more pictures, games, or other files. The new compact and lightweight 850 mAh Li-Ion battery gives the Nokia 3650 phone a talk time of up to 4 hours hours, a standby time of up to 8 days and a faster charging time of approximately one hour. User-changeable Xpress-on(TM) covers allow Nokia 3650 phone owners another personalization option. The phone will also support a variety of optional accessories for power management, wearables and wireless Bluetooth connectivity. 

