Chunghwa Telecom in Taiwan selects Nokia to supply its MMS solution 

(August 29, 2002) 

CHT consumers to enjoy mobile images, sound and text.


Chunghwa Telecom (CHT) has signed an agreement with Nokia for the supply of a complete end-to-end multimedia messaging (MMS) system for CHT¡¯s advanced wireless network.
 
The end-to-end multimedia messaging solution that Nokia will supply includes the Nokia MMS Center, the Nokia Multimedia Terminal Gateway for non-MMS phones, the Nokia WAP Gateway, the Nokia Multimedia Email Gateway and the Nokia Profile Server.  In addition, Nokia will provide its Personal Album application for long-term message storage.
 
¡°CHT is very happy to further strengthen its co-operation with Nokia.  Nokia has shown its vision and ability to provide tailor-made solutions and services that will be an advantage to us as we move forward toward next-generation services,¡± said Mr. Yue Chin-Yi, President of Chunghwa Telecom Mobile Group.  ¡°Today¡¯s announcement means that CHT will be geared to launch its MMS services by the fourth quarter this year.¡±
 
¡°Nokia¡¯s state-of-the-art MMS solution and strong content and application support makes us well-positioned to provide superior experiences for end-users, ¡°said James Lin, Vice President and General Manager, Business Development, Nokia Networks Asia Pacific.  ¡°For the first time, CHT¡¯s subscribers will be able to enjoy innovative and easy-to-use multimedia services with Chinese characters, allowing them to send and receive text, images, graphics and sound combined into a single rich message.¡° 
 
¡°Nokia remains firmly committed to supporting CHT¡¯s aggressive plans in bringing next-generation mobile communications to Taiwan,¡± he added.
 
Nokia has among the wireless industry¡¯s most extensive track record in MMS with over 25 customers to date and an ever-growing number of launched systems, making multimedia messaging a reality for today¡¯s mobile consumers.  
 
The Nokia MMS solution gives mobile subscribers the ability enjoy multimedia services such as content access and person-to-person mobile messaging from MMS-capable handset to e-mail, e-mail to MMS handset or between applications and MMS handsets.  The Nokia Multimedia Terminal Gateway makes it possible even for users of non-MMS-capable legacy GSM terminals to receive multimedia messages.  Legacy-terminal users receive an SMS notification and can connect to a web site to view their MMS message. 
 
Chunghwa Telecom is the incumbent state-owned operator, which has committed itself to innovation, speed, reliability, simplicity, and economy. It seeks to enter the ranks of the world-class telecom carriers by linking the world and the people through superior service, enterprising management, and continually improving performance. Chunghwa Telecom operates both domestic and international telecom businesses.  Chunghwa is the biggest mobile operator in Taiwan and has more than 7 million mobile subscribers, which is around 34% market share in Taiwan.
 
A market leader in the cellular industry in Asia Pacific, Nokia provides innovative, industry leading and market-relevant technology and products to around 20 diverse markets in the region.
