2003 Pontiac Vibe


  
Pontiac will not launch its small entry-level Vibe until the 2003 model year, but two versions of the five-door hatchback crossover vehicle appeared at auto shows early in 2001. Los Angeles showgoers were the first to see the basic Vibe in January 2001. A more potent Vibe GT turned up a week later at Detroit¡¯s North American International Auto Show. Styled by Pontiac, the Vibe has been engineered by Toyota and will be produced at New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., a Toyota/General Motors joint-venture facility in Fremont, Calif.

Like other small crossover models that are entering the automotive scene, the Vibe combines the features of a sports car, a sport wagon and a sport utility vehicle. That sounds like a lot of ¡°sport,¡± and the Vibe does lean in that direction because Pontiac has long been the sportiest member of the GM manufacturing divisions. Both front-wheel-drive and all-wheel-drive versions will be offered. Introducing the Vibe GT in Detroit with a horde of young folks onstage made Pontiac¡¯s target market for the car quite clear. 

Like other new compact hatchbacks that are arriving in the U.S. market, the Vibe is a crossover model that defies categorization because it blends the attributes of several vehicle types. Because of its basic, practical configuration, cars.com is placing the Vibe ¡ª and the related Toyota Matrix ¡ª in the wagon category. 

Exterior
In a more appealing package than some GM designs of the past, the Vibe¡¯s basic styling cues suggest a midsize SUV and other recent Pontiac themes. Though there is some resemblance to the controversial Aztek, the Vibe is considerably less radical. Pontiac calls the Vibe¡¯s design ¡°purposeful and athletic,¡± as well as ¡°smooth, sculpted and muscular.¡±

Tapering side window lines are reminiscent of the Ford Focus Wagon. The distinctive roofline has an integrated roof rack that¡¯s said to create a fastback shape. Bold Pontiac-based features include a vented front fascia with a twin-port grille and recessed fog lamps. Multilayer taillights flank the rear liftgate and glass opening.

With a 102.4-inch wheelbase, the Vibe measures 171.8 inches long overall and stands 63 inches tall. Pontiac¡¯s show car had 18-inch tires on five-spoke alloy wheels, but details on the production model have yet to be announced.
Interior
Seating five occupants, the Vibe was developed to yield a spacious interior within a compact frame. Not only does the front passenger seat fold flat, but so does the 60/40-split rear seat, which creates a level load floor. Cargo space behind the driver, with the backseat folded down, totals 57.2 cubic feet. Chrome-trimmed gauges in the driver-oriented cockpit feature the traditional red Pontiac display. Chrome tie-downs will allow the easy transport of bicycles and other loose items. A CD player will be standard, but the show car featured a six-speaker, 200-watt Monsoon sound system, as well as GM¡¯s OnStar communication system.
Under the Hood
The base engine is a 1.8-liter four-cylinder, rated at 130 horsepower and 125 pounds-feet of torque and coupled to a four-speed-automatic transmission. The Vibe GT show car featured the 180-hp version of the 1.8-liter with variable valve timing, teamed with a six-speed-manual transmission. Pontiac claims the Vibe GT can accelerate from zero to 60 mph in just over 8 seconds.

Safety
Antilock brakes and seat-mounted side-impact airbags will be standard. The Vibe GT gets all-disc brakes, while the base model halts with a front-disc/rear-drum setup. 


