2003 Infiniti G35 Sport Coupe
  

Just a few months after introducing the new G35 sedan to the marketplace, Infiniti had a sumptuously shaped Sport Coupe offshoot ready for display. First seen at the New York International Auto Show in March 2002, the G35 Sport Coupe ¡ª though related to the sedan ¡ª shares no body panels with its sedan sibling.

¡°With a car this stunning, not a lot has to be said,¡± said Infiniti Vice President Mark McNabb during the vehicle¡¯s unveiling in New York. McNabb said the Sport Coupe ¡°moves Infiniti forward into new territory.¡± Built on a racing-inspired FM (front midships) platform and designed with a 52/48 weight distribution, the G35 Sport Coupe uses the same 3.5-liter V-6 engine that¡¯s found in the G35 sedan. But in this installation, the V-6 will produce at least 275 horsepower. Speaking at the New York presentation, Jack Collins, Infiniti¡¯s vice president of product planning, referred to the coupe¡¯s ¡°harmony of speed and style.¡±

Collins said the Sport Coupe¡¯s suspension tuning is ¡°slightly more aggressive¡± than the sedan¡¯s, and it makes extensive use of aluminum to reduce unsprung weight. The dual-exhaust note from the V-6 engine is said to match the coupe¡¯s performance-oriented stance. Scheduled to go on sale in November 2002, the rear-wheel-drive two-door G35 is expected to start below $30,000. Luxury and Sport models will be available.

Exterior
Aerodynamic styling is highlighted by wheels that are pushed out to the corners and by what Infiniti calls an ¡°aggressive but refined stance.¡± A blend of concave and convex shapes, the two-door G35 Sport Coupe body rides the same 112.2-inch wheelbase as the sedan. Amplifying its unique nature, the coupe is more than 4 inches shorter, 3 inches lower and 2.5 inches wider than the sedan. The coupe¡¯s slipperiness is demonstrated by a low coefficient of drag: just 0.29 in standard form and 0.28 when equipped with the Aero Package, which includes a rear wing and underside fairings.

When viewed from different angles, the grille changes its light reflection pattern. Rounded, extended-length fenders top 17-inch aluminum-alloy sport wheels, and 18-inch wheels are optional. LED taillights complement xenon high-intensity-discharge headlights. Sport models get 18-inch high-performance tires and a limited-slip differential. To provide extra braking effectiveness, a Brembo brake package will be offered. A dual-sliding glass sunroof is optional.

Interior
Four occupants fit into the driver-oriented 2+2 cockpit, which features soft leather seating surfaces and a sculpted fold-down rear seat. Six-way power adjustment is provided for the driver¡¯s seat, and two-way power is available for the front passenger seat. An in-dash six-CD changer is standard, while options include a digital, eight-speaker Bose audio system and a DVD-based navigation system with a 6.5-inch retractable video screen. Infiniti also intends to offer XM and Sirius satellite radio systems.

Infiniti¡¯s signature analog clock sits on the dashboard. The gauges are illuminated with a Fine Vision electrofluorescent system. Premium and Winter option groups will be offered.

Like other 2003 Infiniti models, the G35 Sport Coupe will be fitted with a telematics system that can provide a variety of services such as automatic airbag deployment notification, emergency notification, stolen vehicle tracking, and hands-free voice-activated phone dialing and voice mail, as well as information and location-based navigation services.

Under the Hood
Like the G35 sedan, the Sport Coupe will be equipped with a 3.5-liter V-6 engine, but it will be rated at no less than 275 hp and 260 pounds-feet of torque. Either a five-speed-automatic or a six-speed-manual transmission may be installed, and the latter gearbox offers a manual-shifting provision. An electronic drive-by-wire throttle is used. Infiniti¡¯s Vehicle Dynamic Control system is standard.

Safety
Dual-stage front airbags, front-seat side-impact airbags, and front and rear curtain-type airbags are standard. All-disc antilock brakes include a brake assist system and electronic brake-force distribution (EBD). Seat belt pretensioners, load limiters and LATCH child-safety seat tethers are standard. 

 
 

