2003 Nissan Murano

  
Nissan will add the brand-new Murano crossover sport utility vehicle to its lineup in November 2002. Crossover vehicles blend the virtues of several body styles into a single model, and they appear to be especially hot items for the 2003 season. Infiniti, Nissan¡¯s luxury division, will follow suit early in 2003 with its FX45 ¡ª an SUV that¡¯s similar to the Murano. 

Specifically designed, developed and engineered for the U.S. market, the Murano ¡°gets away from the slab-sided design that¡¯s so common in the category . . . [and it] offers an emotional alternative to typical SUVs,¡± said Bill Kirrane, vice president and general manager of the Nissan Division, during the vehicle¡¯s unveiling at the New York International Auto Show in March 2002. 
 
Named after the sculpted glass art that comes from islands near Venice, Italy, the Murano will ride a new FF-L platform that is shared with the Altima sedan. The Murano comes with either front-wheel drive or all-wheel drive, and it has a four-wheel-independent suspension and a continuously variable transmission (CVT). The CVT unit is a first for Nissan in the U.S. market. 

Exterior
Nissan says the Murano has a ¡°wraparound surface construction¡± that features a sloping hoodline and a steeply raked windshield. The wheels are pushed out toward the corners of the vehicle, which exemplifies a design that permits a long wheelbase and wide stance. Nissan says that stylists followed a ¡°sculpture in motion¡± theme that features an architectural grille and a sporty, upswept D-pillar that blends into the rounded rear cargo door. As described by Nissan, the Murano features ¡°SUV strength below the belt line and sport sedan openness above.¡± The cargo door is made of steel-reinforced plastic. 

Xenon high-intensity-discharge bulbs go into the vertically stacked headlights. Standard 18-inch wheels and tires are installed. Aerodynamic enhancements include an under-engine body cover, front and rear tire deflectors, a chin spoiler and a rear spoiler. The Murano rides a 111.2-inch wheelbase, measures 187.6 inches long overall and stands 66.6 inches tall. 

Interior
Nissan promises ¡°first-class seating¡± for two couples on sculpted seats in the Murano. The driver can have an optional eight-way seat adjuster along with a tilt steering wheel and a padded gauge-cluster setup. Adjustable throttle and brake pedals are optional and have a 3-inch range and a memory function. The split, folding rear seat reclines and has a remote slip-down function. 

Trimmed in aluminum, the instrument panel is a one-piece ¡°floating¡± design. A seven-speaker Bose audio system and a navigation system are optional. A two-tier console in the cockpit is large enough to hold a laptop computer or a purse. The rear cargo area is fitted with a large, lightweight drawer. The maximum cargo volume in the Murano is 70.8 cubic feet. 

Under the Hood
The Murano carries a 240-horsepower, 3.5-liter V-6 engine and Nissan¡¯s CVT, which has no gears but works with a belt and twin pulleys. The SE trim level incorporates a seven-speed-manual shift mode that permits greater driver input. 

An available Vehicle Dynamic Control system improves stability by controlling brake pressure and engine torque automatically during certain difficult driving conditions. 

Safety
Standard features include dual-stage front airbags, seat-mounted side-impact airbags, and side curtain-type airbags that protect front and rear occupants. The seat belts have pretensioners and load limiters. Child-safety seat anchors, a tether system and active head restraints for the front seats are installed. All-disc antilock brakes have Brake Assist and electronic brake-force distribution (EBD). 

