22003 Dodge SRT-4

A 205-horsepower turbocharged four-cylinder engine propels Dodge¡¯s high-performance compact SRT-4 sedan, which is based on the compact Neon. Used as an acronym for Street and Racing Technology, the new SRT sub-brand is intended to stand for ¡°ultimate interpretations of performance,¡± according to Dodge. 

Judging by the yellow sedan that appeared at the 2002 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, the SRT-4 looks essentially the same as the regular Neon but with some noticeable sporty touches to distinguish the two cars. Dodge calls it ¡°eye candy backed by performance.¡± 

A Viper SRT-10 from Dodge is expected to go on sale first, and the SRT-4 will follow in early 2003. Apart from the Viper, the SRT-4 will be the fastest car in Dodge¡¯s lineup with a 0-to-60-mph acceleration time of 5.9 seconds. These new SRT models are expected to ¡°establish an aspirational and performance image for Dodge,¡± says Jim Schroer, executive vice president of sales and marketing for Dodge. By pricing the car at $19,995, Dodge hopes to attract plenty of buyers in the highly coveted 18- to 25-year-old range. There are many enthusiasts in that age group who are willing to pay an additional $2,500 to $3,500 for an aftermarket performance upgrade kit. 

Exterior
The front-wheel-drive SRT-4 is built with a lower stance than the regular Neon. It has larger tires, unique front and rear fascias, and a unique steel hood with an integral air intake. Special side-sill and door cladding provides what Dodge calls ¡°the low, stealthy appearance of a car made for racing.¡± A small amount of satin silver badging is used. Four body colors will be offered: Black, Bright Silver Metallic, Flame Red and Solar Yellow. Measuring 175.7 inches long overall, the four-door sedan is 56.5 inches tall and rides on a 105-inch wheelbase. 

A Dodge crosshair grille sits up front on the SRT-4, and a cast-aluminum intercooler is placed just behind the lower grille. Sill-mounted ground-effects components and a Mopar ¡°signature¡± deck-mounted basket-handle spoiler are installed. New polished-stainless-steel dual exhaust tips are visible at the rear. 

The SRT-4¡¯s special 17-inch aluminum wheels were used on the 2000 Neon SRT concept and are designed to resemble aftermarket wheels. They include tape-on weights and fuller-width rim sections, and the automaker says their unique spoke pattern delivers improved airflow to the brakes. Performance-tuned strut and spring assemblies in the suspension work with heavy-duty stabilizer bars. 

Interior
Special Viper-style performance seats are installed in the SRT-4. The front seats have enhanced lumbar and lateral sections. New Agate-colored cloth is textured for an improved grip while cornering, and side bolsters are trimmed in vinyl. Carbon-look leather is used to wrap the top of the three-spoke steering wheel. Distinctive gauges have satin silver ring accents and special silver faces. A turbo boost/vacuum gauge sits to the right of the instrument cluster. 

Cast-aluminum pedals feature a dimple surface texture, and a silver-colored ¡°cue ball¡± knob tops the short-throw gearshift lever. Standard equipment includes air conditioning, remote keyless entry, and power windows and door locks. 

Under the Hood
The SRT-4¡¯s turbocharged 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine pumps out 205 hp and teams with a heavy-duty five-speed-manual transmission. Premium fuel is required. 

Safety
All-disc antilock brakes are standard, and side-impact airbags are optional. 

 
 
