2003 Volkswagen Touareg
 
  
Named after a tribe of nomadic merchants in the Sahara Desert, who are known as the ¡°knights of the desert,¡± the Touareg isn¡¯t expected to go on sale in the United States until mid-2003. Because it won¡¯t be officially seen for the first time until the Paris Motor Show in September 2002, details are limited regarding Volkswagen¡¯s first sport utility vehicle. Americans will probably see it first at Detroit¡¯s North American International Auto Show in January 2003. 

Volkswagen reports that its crossover SUV will reach the European market earlier; it will arrive there in the fall of 2002. The Touareg¡¯s name symbolizes the vehicle¡¯s ability to function in varying travel conditions ¡ª much like the desert nomads are able to adapt themselves to difficult situations. Volkswagen AG in Germany notes that the Touareg combines the merits of an offroad vehicle with those of a luxury-class estate car. 
 
The four-door Touareg will be built at a new plant in Germany by Porsche, along with that company¡¯s brand-new Cayenne SUV. The Touareg is expected to get a W12 engine and possibly a V-10 turbo-diesel in its European versions. The Touareg for the U.S. market will be fitted with either a 3.2-liter V-6 engine or a 4.2-liter V-8. The Cayenne carries a more potent 450-horsepower engine. 

The Touareg has an electronically controlled, permanent four-wheel-drive system and comes equipped with offroad gearing and a locking differential. Up to 100 percent of the engine¡¯s power can be sent to either the front or rear wheels, based on road conditions. A locking rear differential will be offered as an option. 

Fitted with electronically controlled shock absorbers and operated by a switch inside the vehicle, a full pneumatic suspension will be available. Volkswagen expects to sell about 40,000 Touaregs annually in the United States. 

Exterior
The unibody structure of the Touareg makes it more carlike in appearance than many SUVs. It is constructed of fully galvanized steel. The hood wraps down to the horizontal-bar grille, which is similar to the one installed on Volkswagen¡¯s all-new Phaeton. Short overhangs are used in the design and are complemented by rounded body shoulders and sculpted wheel arches. An especially distinctive feature is the groove located on the lower part of the doors. 

The Touareg rides a 112.6-inch wheelbase, measures 187.0 inches long overall and stands 67.7 inches tall. The SUV¡¯s ground clearance reaches as much as 11.8 inches, and the vehicle has a wading depth of 23 inches. Models equipped with the air suspension lower automatically by an inch when the vehicle¡¯s speed reaches approximately 77 mph. 

Interior
The automaker says the styling of the luxurious interior emulates that of the costly Phaeton sedan; it features wood trim. Dual-zone climate control is standard, and a navigation system will be optional. 

Under the Hood
Two engines will be available when it first goes on sale in the United States. A 3.2-liter V-6 will develop approximately 220 hp, while a 4.2-liter V-8 will generate more than 300 hp. The V-8 power plant is similar to the one used in the Audi A8 sedan. A six-speed-automatic transmission functions with Tiptronic control. 

Safety
Side-impact airbags and side curtain-type airbags will be installed. Antilock brakes, traction control and an Electronic Stability Program will be standard. 

 
 
