2003 Hyundai Tiburon

Hyundai first entered the sport-coupe market in 1997 with the first-generation Tiburon, which joined the South Korean company¡¯s line of value-priced sedans. A second-generation edition emerged for the 2000 model year. Sales have been relatively modest but saw significant growth in the past season ¡ª from 15,237 cars in 2000 to 19,176 in 2001, according to Automotive News.

After sitting out the start of the 2002 model year, Hyundai had a new Tiburon ready for introduction during the first quarter of the 2002 calendar year as an early 2003 model. First seen at Germany¡¯s Frankfurt Motor Show in September 2001, the latest Tiburon made its North American debut at the South Florida International Auto Show a month later. Prices range from $15,999 to $17,999.

 First-generation Tiburons descended from Hyundai¡¯s HCD-I and HCD-II concept cars, which were built with flowing lines and abundant curves. Hyundai says the second-generation models adopted a ¡°harder edge.¡± The 2003 Tiburon is built on a new and unique platform, and a V-6 engine and six-speed-manual transmission are available for the first time. Previous Tiburons were built on the same platform as the Elantra sedan.

Exterior 
Styled in South Korea, the 2003 Tiburon blends straight and curved lines in what Hyundai calls an effort to ¡°emphasize vitality and strength.¡± The body features a high belt line and a ¡°chopped¡± greenhouse, with a steeply raked windshield and back window. Large, low-profile, high-performance tires help to impart an aggressive stance. Tiburons have all-disc brakes, a fully independent suspension, and front and rear stabilizer bars.

In addition to producing a stiffer chassis, engineers have added a front subframe. At 99.6 inches, the Tiburon¡¯s wheelbase is 2.2 inches longer than before. Its overall length has been increased by 2.1 inches to an even 173 inches. The Tiburon also has grown a little in height and width, to 52.3 and 69.3 inches, respectively. A power moonroof is optional.

When equipped with the V-6 engine and six-speed gearbox, the GT coupe gets a handling package that includes 17-inch tires and a revised suspension, with spring rates increased by 10 percent and stabilizer bars that are larger in diameter. The standard tires are 16-inchers. A body-colored rear spoiler is installed on the GT V6 coupe.

Interior 
Headroom, legroom and shoulder room are said to be larger than in prior Tiburons, and cargo volume totals 14.7 cubic feet. Leather seating surfaces are standard in the GT V6 coupe. A six-speaker stereo with a CD player is standard in the base Tiburon, while the GT V6 gets a seven-speaker Infinity CD system. Standard equipment in all models includes air conditioning, remote keyless entry, power windows and door locks, and a tilt steering column.

Under the Hood 
Hyundai borrowed the Tiburon GT V6¡¯s 2.7-liter dual-overhead-cam V-6 engine from the Sonata sedan and Santa Fe sport utility vehicle. Rated at 181 horsepower, it mates with one of three available transmissions: a four-speed Shiftronic automatic, a five-speed manual or a six-speed manual. The base Tiburon carries a 140-hp, 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine that mates with either a four-speed Shiftronic automatic transmission or a five-speed manual. Side-impact airbags are standard, and antilock brakes are optional.


 
 
