2003 Mazda Mazdaspeed Proteg¨¦

  
Mazda took the prize for flamboyance with its rousing, youth-oriented presentation at the New York International Auto Show in March 2002. Its purpose: to introduce the new Mazdaspeed edition of its compact Proteg¨¦ sedan. 

The Mazdaspeed Proteg¨¦ is a follow-up to the limited-production MP3 model that appeared in 2001. It is the first car to wear the Mazdaspeed label in the United States. The idea was initiated by enthusiastic Mazda engineers in the United States. The Mazdaspeed Proteg¨¦ goes on sale in the fourth quarter of 2002. Only 2,000 units will be produced and sold for the U.S. and Canadian markets. 
 
 
Callaway Cars Inc., which is well known for engine and systems development, has beefed up the Proteg¨¦¡¯s 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine with an intercooled Garrett T25 turbocharger. A five-speed, close-ratio, short-throw manual gearbox is installed, along with a heavy-duty clutch and limited-slip differential. Sending that power to the pavement are 17-inch Bridgestone Potenza Z-rated unidirectional tires that feature an ultra-low profile. Euro-spec, all-disc antilock brakes come with electronic brake-force distribution (EBD). 

¡°Buyers of these cars are the enthusiasts, the racers,¡± says Mazda spokesman Jay Amestoy. In addition to performance-focused cars, the Mazdaspeed line includes accessories, performance parts and clothing ¡ª some of which were seen during the preview at the New York auto show. They will be available from select racing parts dealers. 

Exterior
This special Mazdaspeed Proteg¨¦ exhibits a more aggressive appearance than the regular sedan, but the main differences are technical. The five-spoke, 17x7-inch Racing Beat wheels are made of alloy with an aluminum Super Silver finish; they hold P215/45ZR17 tires. Racing Beat is a well-known tuner of Mazda vehicles, and the company also contributed to the chassis refinement, suspension upgrades and the car¡¯s high-performance rear muffler. 

Specially engineered front MacPherson struts are accompanied by a strut tower brace, higher-rating springs and revalved Tokico dampers. Racing Beat-tuned struts and a large stabilizer bar are equipped at the rear. 

Interior
The Sparco organization contributed to the sedan¡¯s interior, which includes such racing-inspired components as drilled aluminum pedals with rubber inserts and an aluminum shift knob. Like the regular Proteg¨¦, the Mazdaspeed edition will seat five occupants. Silver-faced analog gauges are installed. A leather-wrapped Nardi steering wheel and suedelike seat bolsters round out the distinctive features. 

The 450-watt Kenwood stereo system features an in-dash CD/MP3 player and six speakers, and it is prewired for an optional Sirius satellite radio. The unit¡¯s face turns around and disappears as a security measure. 

Under the Hood
Fitted with an intercooled Garrett turbocharger, the 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine develops 170 horsepower and 160 pounds-feet of torque. A five-speed-manual transmission is equipped in the Mazdaspeed Proteg¨¦, which also features close-ratio gearing and short throws to suit driving enthusiasts. Antilock brakes are standard. 
