2003 Kia Sorento

  
Kia chose the 2002 Chicago Auto Show as the host site of its newest model introduction for the U.S. market: the 2003 Sorento. The Sorento is ¡°a tough, true sport utility vehicle¡± that is ¡°significantly larger and more powerful¡± than the Sportage, said Chief Operating Officer Peter Butterfield during the vehicle¡¯s unveiling. 

Rear-wheel-drive and four-wheel-drive (4WD) versions will be available, and the 4WD model will be equipped with either part-time or full-time Torque-on-Demand operation. A 3.5-liter V-6 engine goes under the hood and sends 192 horsepower to a four-speed-automatic transmission. 
 
The Sorento will go on sale in the early fall of 2002. Kia saw a 39-percent increase in sales volume during 2001 and ¡°has no plans to slow its growth in 2002,¡± Butterfield said. The South Korean company expects to sell more than 50,000 Sorentos per year in the United States and will compete against popular SUVs such as the Ford Escape and Jeep Liberty. 

Exterior
The Sorento uses body-on-frame construction with a ladder frame that contains nine cross-members. Its wheelbase measures 106 inches, and its track width (the distance between the wheels) is 62.1 inches, which promotes satisfying stability. In contrast, the Sportage has a 104.3-inch wheelbase and a 56.7-inch track width, but both Kia models are considered compact SUVs by EPA standards. 

Short front and rear overhangs are supposed to permit the Sorento to navigate on steep terrain. Ground clearance is just over 8 inches. All models have four-wheel disc brakes, 16-inch Michelin tires, a side-opening rear hatch and a full-size spare tire that stows beneath the body. 

Interior
The Sorento seats five occupants. Flip-and-fold, 60/40-split rear seats fold to create a flat floor, and cargo space amounts to 138.4 cubic feet. Kia claims the Sorento¡¯s total interior volume is 5 cubic feet greater than that of the Escape or Liberty. Eight cupholders are included. 

Two trim levels will be offered. The well-equipped LX base model has standard air conditioning, cruise control, an eight-speaker audio system, and power windows, door locks and mirrors. Only a few options will be available for the LX. 

The EX model adds a power sunroof, an eight-way power driver¡¯s seat, an overhead console, a HomeLink universal garage door opener, two-tone body cladding and alloy wheels. Leather upholstery is optional. An EX Luxury Package includes a 280-watt in-dash six-CD player, steering-wheel audio controls, automatic climate control, leather interior trim, Torque-on-Demand 4WD and chrome exterior trim. 

Under the Hood
Kia¡¯s 3.5-liter V-6 engine generates 192 hp and teams with a four-speed-automatic transmission. Part-time 4WD is not intended for use on dry pavement, while the Torque-on-Demand system operates automatically. Each 4WD transfer case includes a Low range. An Eaton limited-slip differential that¡¯s capable of transferring up to 50 percent of torque between the rear wheels will be available. The Sorento can tow as much as 3,500 pounds, and an automatic-leveling system is available. 

Safety
Curtain-type airbags protect both front and rear occupants. Antilock brakes are optional. 

Driving Impressions
Kia¡¯s recent models have been a strong step forward for the company. Kia takes an even bigger stride ahead with the Sorento in its lineup. Apart from its value-oriented price, this SUV is an appealing and highly capable machine, and it is solidly built and tautly ready for action.

The Sorento can clamber up steep, narrow inclines with barely a hint of strain, and its 4WD capability makes dirt-road treks look easy. Performance is similarly strong on regular pavement, but it¡¯s not necessarily better than the competition. The Sorento¡¯s automatic transmission behaves well, but its shifts aren¡¯t entirely seamless. Other than some engine blare on hard acceleration and a touch of wind noise at times, the Sorento is very quiet.

The SUV¡¯s handling is a major plus. The Sorento steers with a somewhat light feel, and it delivers excellent control and satisfying confidence.

Ride comfort actually seems better on rough gravel roads than on the interstate mainly because body motion is a little too noticeable on paved surfaces. The Sorento¡¯s taut suspension can overreact to imperfections, so occupants may be tossed around a bit.

The firm seats are especially comfortable and offer pleasant cushioning and impressive support for longer journeys. Rear-seat space is ample. The gauges are ordinary but easy to read, and the interior is well fitted with storage spaces. On the other hand, the woodgrain trim that is included in the Luxury Package adds little to the interior¡¯s appeal.

The Sorento is a very pleasant vehicle and is easy and enjoyable to drive. Despite the slew of new SUV models for 2003, Kia should have little trouble luring buyers.


