2003 Honda Element

  
Youthful shoppers gave a big thumbs-up when Honda exhibited its Model X concept vehicle at Detroit¡¯s North American International Auto Show in January 2001. As a result, the innovative light truck wound up on what Honda calls the ¡°fast track to production.¡± A preproduction version was introduced at the New York International Auto Show in March 2002; it is now named the Element.

Honda says the Element combines the best traits of a pickup truck and a sport utility vehicle, and it retains the most striking feature of the Model X concept: a pillarless side-door configuration that yields maximum cargo-loading flexibility. Aimed directly at active young buyers, the square-rigged Element is intended to be what the automaker calls a combination ¡°dorm room/base camp¡± with enough space for four passengers and all their gear.

¡°The Element is designed for those who surf, snowboard, mountain bike and do just about anything else,¡± said Tom Elliott, executive vice president of American Honda. ¡°Right now, [these buyers are] trying to adapt to cars, trucks and SUVs, but there is no one vehicle that meets their needs.¡±

Front-wheel-drive (FWD) and four-wheel-drive (4WD) versions will be offered. Built in East Liberty, Ohio, the Element is scheduled to reach dealerships in December 2002. About 50,000 units are expected to go on sale in the first year and will be priced between $16,000 and $21,000. The likely buyers are part of what¡¯s called Generation Y ¡ª some 71 million young people born between 1977 and 1994.

Exterior
Center-opening swing-wide doors with no B-pillar between them are the most notable styling feature of the Element¡¯s straightforward exterior design. To create a wide entrance space, the rear doors are hinged at the back and the front doors are hinged in the normal way. Built on Honda¡¯s Global Compact Platform, the Element is smaller in size than Honda¡¯s new Pilot SUV, and its styling is undeniably more adventurous.

Interior
Functionality is considered to be one of the Element¡¯s main attractions. The rear seats fold down to create a large, open cargo space in the rugged, easy-to-clean interior. Space is sufficient for hauling surfboards, snowboards, mountain bikes ¡ª just the sort of outdoors equipment that young buyers with athletic lifestyles are presumed to like. A powerful AM/FM radio with a six-CD player can also be fitted with an MP3 player or video-game outlets.

Under the Hood
Borrowed from Honda¡¯s CR-V, the 2.4-liter i-VTEC four-cylinder engine produces 160 horsepower. Either a four-speed-automatic or a five-speed-manual transmission can be installed, and FWD or Real Time 4WD is available.

Safety
Details on safety features are not yet available, but Honda expects the Element to achieve five-star crash-test ratings by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). 

