2003 Audi A4 Cabriolet

  
Audi abandoned its slow-selling Cabriolet (convertible), which was based on the old 90 series, after the 1998 model year ¡ª two years after the A4 sedan debuted. The Cabriolet is back for the 2003 model year, and it is now based on the A4 platform. The convertible was unveiled at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit in January 2002. 

Promising performance that¡¯s comparable to its sedan and wagon siblings, the four-passenger front-wheel-drive A4 Cabriolet shares basic styling touches with the A4 sedan. A 3.0-liter V-6 engine is installed and drives Audi¡¯s multitronic continuously variable transmission (CVT), which saw its first use in front-drive A4 sedans for the 2002 model year. In Tiptronic mode, simulated gear selection is achieved by shifting the selector forward or rearward or by using toggle switches mounted on the steering wheel. 
 
The A4 Cabriolet went on sale in the United States in September 2002. Later in the 2003 model year, Audi will offer its turbocharged 1.8-liter four-cylinder engine in the A4 Cabriolet. 

Exterior
Like the A4 sedan and wagon, the A4 Cabriolet has a double grille and triple-tube headlight module, a contoured tail and chrome exhaust pipes. Flared wheel arches accent the bodysides. Brushed-aluminum trim goes around the windshield and along the waist. A wide arch roofline for the convertible top enhances the body¡¯s subtle wedge profile. The A4-based suspension has been lowered slightly for use in the Cabriolet version. Heated windshield-washer nozzles and retractable headlight washers are standard. 

Seven-spoke cast-alloy wheels hold 16-inch tires, while the 1.8T model features five-spoke wheels. An optional Sport Package includes stiffer shock absorbers and springs, stronger stabilizer bars and high-performance tires on five-spoke 17-inch wheels. Options include a wind deflector for increased top-down comfort and self-leveling xenon high-intensity-discharge headlights. The Cabriolet rides a 104.5-inch wheelbase, stretches 180 inches long overall and stands 54.8 inches high. 

Intended for four-season comfort, the fabric top is triple-layered and padded. A heated glass rear window incorporates electric defrosting. Construction is designed to prevent tent ridges caused by the top¡¯s mechanical linkages. The top is fully automatic and retracts in 24 seconds. The A4 Cabriolet also features a well cover that closes flush with the body after it has retracted. Radio and navigation system antennas are integrated into the composite deck lid. 

Interior
Round air vents are circled by aluminum rings in the sporty cockpit, which includes a center console. Four occupants fit inside the A4 Cabriolet. Audi claims this car has the most rear legroom of any convertible. An anti-theft alarm, a tilt sensor and an engine immobilizer are included. 

Audi¡¯s Symphony radio includes an in-dash six-CD changer and nine speakers. Standard equipment includes a four-spoke leather steering wheel, 12-way height-adjustable front seats with four-way electric lumbar adjustment, power windows with one-touch up/down all around, heated power mirrors, lighted vanity mirrors, and a visor above and behind the rearview mirror. Automatic dual-zone climate control works with seven temperature sensors, as well as sun and pressure sensors. When the vehicle detects smog, it shuts off outside air and begins air recirculation. 

Options include heated front seats, a HomeLink universal garage door opener, automatic-dimming mirrors with a folding function, and a 225-watt Bose premium sound system. Audi¡¯s Parktronic parking-assistance system and a navigation system are also available. Pearl Nappa premium leather seat upholstery is also available. 

Under the Hood
Audi¡¯s 3.0-liter dual-overhead-cam V-6 engine develops 220 horsepower and 221 pounds-feet of torque. The multitronic transmission has no gears but operates with continuously variable ratios. A Tiptronic mode permits the manual selection of simulated gears. The engine meets Ultra Low Emissions Vehicle (ULEV) standards. It is expected that by mid-2003, Audi¡¯s 170-hp, turbocharged 1.8-liter four-cylinder engine will be available. 

Safety
An active rollover system uses sensors to trigger two bars behind the rear seats, which deploy upward when a rollover incident is imminent. A strengthened windshield and A-pillars provide extra protection. Side-impact airbags are standard, all seat belts have pretensioners, and LATCH child-safety seat tethers are installed in the rear seating positions. Antilock brakes are standard and feature rear electronic brake-force distribution (EBD) and Brake Assist for emergency situations. Anti-Slip Regulation traction control and Audi¡¯s Electronic Stabilization Program are standard. 

