2003 Mercury Marauder

  
Although the Marauder has been on the auto-show circuit for some time, Mercury will finally launch its 2003 Marauder in late summer 2002. Showgoers to the 2001 Chicago Auto Show got a first long look at the big, performance-oriented black sedan. A year later, the Chicago show included a concept convertible adapted from the initial sedan. 
 
The Marauder is based on the full-size, rear-wheel-drive Mercury Grand Marquis sedan, and the Marauder name was taken from a memorable high-performance model from the 1960s that also inspired a 1998 concept car of the same name. Rather than serve as a mere trim level of the Grand Marquis, the Marauder is a separate model with its own distinct identity. Mercury bills the car as its ¡°rebel with a cause,¡± which subtly suggests the black ¡¯49 Mercury that appeared in the James Dean movie, ¡°Rebel Without a Cause.¡±
 
¡°It¡¯s fast, it¡¯s black and in my own words, it¡¯s cool,¡± said Ben Gilbert, vehicle line director for Mercury, during the 2001 Chicago preview. To a large degree, the Marauder is reminiscent of the Impala SS that Chevrolet offered in the early 1990s, which was based on the automaker¡¯s full-size Caprice sedan. In addition to attracting sales, Mercury¡¯s development of the Marauder helps demonstrate that the brand plans to be around for some time. 

The Marauder¡¯s potent 4.6-liter V-8 engine is likely to attract performance enthusiasts and not simply full-size sedan fanciers. The Marauder is produced at a Ford of Canada plant at St. Thomas, Ontario, Canada. 

Exterior
The Marauder is finished in black throughout, right down to its dark-tinted headlight and taillight bezels. It looks the part of a forbidding performance machine. Brand Manager Jennifer Monneagle says that there¡¯s ¡°a little bit of a menacing and aggressive and individualistic character¡± in this car. All of the early-release Marauders will be painted black, but additional colors will be available later. The car measures 211.9 inches long overall, stands 56.8 inches high and rides a 114.7-inch wheelbase. Three-inch chrome exhaust tips bring up the rear, and the Marauder name is embossed in the back bumper. 

Five-spoke alloy wheels with 18-inch performance tires display a Mercury logo in the center, and Cibie fog lamps are integrated into the front fascia. The Marauder gets a performance-tuned suspension with front springs that are adapted and slightly shortened from those on Ford¡¯s police car. Rear air springs hail from the Lincoln Town Car limousine. The full perimeter frame has been enhanced and uses lightweight hydroformed steel for the front rails and a solid cast-aluminum number-two cross-member. Mercury claims that the Marauder¡¯s torsional rigidity has increased by 24 percent, compared to that of other Mercury sedans. 

Interior
Although the Grand Marquis can seat six occupants, the Marauder is a five-passenger automobile. The instrument panel is designed with dot-matrix gray trim accents. White-faced gauges include a 7,000-rpm tachometer and a 140-mph speedometer with a red-lit Marauder graphic. The center console contains a leather-wrapped, floor-mounted gearshift lever. Auto Meter oil-pressure and voltage gauges sit ahead of the shifter. 

The Marauder¡¯s leather upholstery uses classic French seam stitching, and the seats have extra padding for improved thigh, lumbar and shoulder support. A modern version of the Mercury god¡¯s head is debossed into the front seatbacks. A 140-watt Alpine stereo with cassette and CD players is standard, and a six-CD changer is offered as an option for $350. The only other option is a $200 trunk organizer. A moonroof, traction control and heated seats will be offered as options later in the 2003 model year. 

Under the Hood
The Marauder¡¯s 4.6-liter V-8 engine develops 302 horsepower and 310 pounds-feet of torque. Adapted from police duty, the four-speed-automatic transmission drives a 3.55-to-1 rear axle with a limited-slip differential. Premium fuel is required. 

Safety
Side-impact airbags and all-disc antilock brakes that feature electronic brake-force distribution (EBD) and panic assist are standard. Dual-stage front airbags deploy according to crash severity. Child-safety seat tether anchors are in the parcel tray behind each rear seating position. 

Driving Impressions
The Marauder is a pleasure on the road, and it delivers a more satisfying ride than many high-performance machines. The car¡¯s taut suspension is evident, and the big sedan deals effectively with pavement imperfections while maintaining laudable control. Acceleration is strong, but it doesn¡¯t quite rank as exuberant partly because the muscular V-8 is pushing considerable weight. The automatic transmission reacts well and downshifts without notable annoyances.

Front and rear occupants have plenty of space, which is one of the bonuses of a full-size performance sedan. The 21.6-cubic-foot trunk is a nice feature. Although the V-8¡¯s exhaust noise is noticeable during acceleration, the sound is rather subdued when the car is cruising. 
