2003 Chrysler Pacifica


The new Pacifica won¡¯t go on sale until the spring of 2003 as an early 2004 model, but Chrysler is already giving its new sports tourer the full publicity treatment. Unveiled in concept form at Detroit¡¯s North American International Auto Show in January 2002, the Pacifica appeared in production-ready guise at New York¡¯s auto show nearly three months later. 

Blending elements of several vehicle types, the Pacifica is ¡°practical and beautiful,¡± said Jim Schroer, Chrysler¡¯s group executive vice president of global sales and marketing, at the New York show. Chrysler wanted it to be unlike anything else on the market, ready to become ¡°the next big thing¡± in an all-new segment. Developers sought a vehicle that didn¡¯t conform to the traditional proportions of a car, sport utility vehicle or minivan, yet featured their best attributes. Chrysler says the Pacifica is ¡°simply cool and classy,¡± and it will compete in the price range just above $25,000. 
 
Chrysler is focusing on five key points for the Pacifica: dimensions, design, driver control, luxury amenities and packaging. Seating six occupants, the Pacifica has a lower stance than a minivan but a taller height than a wagon. A 3.5-liter V-6 engine that is borrowed from Chrysler¡¯s sporty 300M sedan goes beneath the hood. Pacificas will be produced with an on-demand all-wheel-drive (AWD) system or front-wheel drive (FWD) that includes traction control. 

Chrysler says the Pacifica is mounted on an all-new platform and employs a ¡°new proportion.¡± Marketers have been promoting carlike handling and ¡°first-class, step-across seating.¡± This means that passengers step directly into the Pacifica rather than up or down to get in ¡ª like that in a sport utility vehicle or luxury sedan, respectively. The Pacifica will be manufactured in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. 

Exterior
Bold body creases decorate the Pacifica¡¯s sides. A large, familiar, eggcrate grille with tapered sides holds a new rendition of Chrysler¡¯s winged badge. Fog lamps sit low in deep holders on the lower front bumper. Tires measure 17 inches in diameter, but the original concept model used 19-inchers. The production version rides a 116.3-inch wheelbase, measures 198.9 inches long overall, and stretches 79.3 inches wide and 66.5 inches tall. 

As displayed at the New York auto show, the Pacifica features high-intensity-discharge headlights. Fully independent front and rear suspensions are used, augmented by an automatic-leveling rear suspension. A tire-pressure monitor, a power sunroof and a power liftgate will be available. 

Interior
The Pacifica accommodates six people in three rows of what the manufacturer calls ¡°chair height¡± seats. The first- and second-row seats will be heated. Second-row buckets have fold-flat capability and include a center console and seat-mounted armrests. A 50/50-split, folding bench seat is equipped in the rear. 

An anti-theft alarm, engine immobilizer and power, memory-adjustable pedals will be installed. Available equipment will include dual-zone automatic climate control, a leather-wrapped steering wheel, a 10-way power driver¡¯s seat, a four-way power passenger seat and an Infinity Intermezzo surround-sound audio system with an in-dash six-CD/DVD player. A navigation system mounted in the instrument cluster will also be available, and Chrysler intends to offer a satellite radio system. 

Under the Hood
The horsepower rating for the Pacifica¡¯s 3.5-liter V-6 engine has not yet been released. It will be equipped with a four-speed-automatic transmission that incorporates AutoStick for manually selecting gear changes when desired. FWD and AWD will be available. 

Safety
Antilock brakes are standard, and curtain-type airbags will protect occupants in all three rows of seats. 

