2003 Chrysler Sebring Coupe


Even though the Chrysler Sebring coupe resembles the sedan and convertible of the same name, and all three body styles were redesigned for the 2001 model year, the coupe is part of a different family. Chrysler did the exterior styling and interior design for the coupe, which is similar to the Dodge Stratus coupe. The Sebring coupe¡¯s front-wheel-drive platform is also used for the Mitsubishi Galant sedan, which should be no surprise, because Mitsubishi provides engines and other major mechanical components and also builds the Sebring coupe at its plant in Illinois. The Sebring sedan and convertible are produced from a different design and are wholly manufactured by Chrysler at a Michigan location.

The Sebring coupe has been fully restyled for 2003, and it features all-new front and rear fascias, grille, headlights, taillights, fog lamps and side sill moldings. According to Chrysler, new hood and trunk lid designs add to its sleek form. New 16-inch wheel covers are standard on the LX coupe, and the LXi gets new cast-aluminum 17-inch wheels. A new instrument panel with refined shapes features gauges with black backgrounds and chrome surrounds.

The two-door Sebring is still available as an LX or upscale LXi model. A new Spade fabric is standard inside, and the center console has been reworked. New door trim panels have unique trim bezels, backlit switches and diagonal pull handles. Options now include an auto-dimming mirror with an integral compass and temperature display, HomeLink and reading lamps.

Chrysler and Mitsubishi have been sharing vehicles and engines for nearly 30 years, and DaimlerChrysler owns a controlling interest in the Japanese company. Chrysler¡¯s coupe is outsold by its Dodge Stratus cousin.

Exterior
All three Sebring body styles exhibit similar styling, but the coupe shares no sheet metal with the sedan or convertible. It also bears no resemblance to the Galant from which it is derived. The Sebring coupe¡¯s rear-end styling, which includes a neatly integrated center stoplight, is said to be evocative of the Dodge Intrepid and ESX show cars; but the design has been updated for the upcoming model year. The front fog lamps on the LXi have a fresh design for 2003.

The Sebring coupe rides a 103.7-inch wheelbase and is 191.9 inches long overall; it is 69.9 inches wide and 53.9 inches tall. A power sunroof is standard in the LXi and optional in the LX.

Interior
The two-door Sebring promises more rear-seat space than most coupes on the market. The front passenger seat slides forward when the backrest is tipped to permit easier entry and exit. A 60/40-split, folding rear seat allows additional cargo volume, and trunk space totals 16.3 cubic feet. Air conditioning, power windows and power door locks are standard. The LXi coupe includes a leather-wrapped steering wheel and shift knob, a trunk cargo net and a four-CD changer with a seven-speaker Infinity sound system.

Under the Hood
The Sebring coupe¡¯s engines and transmissions are adapted from the Galant. The base LX engine is a 2.4-liter four-cylinder that produces 147 horsepower with the manual shift and 142 hp with the automatic transmission. A 200-hp, 3.0-liter V-6 is optional in the LX and standard in the LXi. Both models are available with either a four-speed-automatic or five-speed-manual transmission. The automatic gearbox in a V-6-equipped LXi may come with AutoStick, which permits manual gear changes by tipping the shift lever fore and aft. AutoStick can also change gears at wide-open throttle.

Safety
Antilock brakes are optional on the LXi coupe. Side-impact airbags are not available inthe Sebring coupe.

Driving Impressions
The two-door Sebring delivers a refined driving experience. It¡¯s quite a sporty machine when it¡¯s equipped with the manual shift. Chrysler¡¯s five-speed manual functions expertly and works neatly in tandem with a well-behaved clutch.

When it is paired with the automatic transmission, the V-6 engine performs well but it?s not exceptional. Other than the tire noise on certain road surfaces, the Sebring coupe is pleasantly quiet. The four-cylinder model is sufficiently peppy for most drivers ¡ª at least in urban driving ¡ª but it¡¯s noisier than the V-6.

The Sebring coupe¡¯s interior space is bountiful and far removed from the cramped backseat that¡¯s typical in most coupes these days. The Sebring coupe¡¯s ride and handling characteristics rank above the compact norm. Because the two-door and four-door Sebring models stem from a different design than the coupe, their on-the-road qualities are not identical; the two-door comes across as a bit less refined than the sedan. 

 
 
