The Regent House


The Regent House is the governing body and electoral constituency of the University. It principally comprises the current teaching and administrative staff of both the University and the thirty-one Cambridge Colleges, including most holders of University Offices, administrative as well as academic, and College Fellows. There are, at present, over 3,000 members. (The Senate, which consists of the several hundred thousand holders of the M.A. or higher degrees, was formerly the principal legislative authority of the University and controlled its affairs. It now retains mainly electoral responsibilities, for instance in appointing the Chancellor.)

The process of making and amending the regulations which govern the principal items of University business involves the Regent House through its effective control of Graces and Reports.

A Grace is a motion for decision, presented to the Regent House, in almost all cases by the Council. It is published in the University's weekly journal, Cambridge University Reporter and, for most minor matters, a footnote of explanation will be appended to it. Appointments made by the Regent House to many University bodies are also 'made by Grace'. If no objection is raised by a specified number of members within ten days, the Regent House is deemed to have approved the Grace.

More complex matters and proposals are presented in the form of a Report, again published in Reporter, with extended, reasoned recommendations. Such a Report is first put up for Discussion, that is, public debate in the Senate-House. The remarks made at the Discussion are then considered by the body responsible for originating the recommendations, who advise the Council on the response to be contained in a statement or Notice, also published in Reporter and replying to the Discussion. Such a Notice normally ends by re-submitting the proposals to the Regent House in the form of a further Grace, amended, if necessary, in the light of the remarks that have been made. The procedure then allows either for approval without dissent, or, if requested, for a ballot of members of the Regent House in person. (It should be stressed that this is not an empty formality. There have been very many modern examples of contested legislative proposals, although the great majority are approved.) If a vote is called, voting is by postal ballot.

The Regent House also has important electoral responsibilities in appointing members to the Council and a number of other University bodies, and has the right of approving all Degrees conferred by the University, including honorary degrees.

At meetings of the Regent House (termed 'Congregations') the Chancellor takes the Chair if he is present, otherwise the Vice-Chancellor does so, or a Head of College (known as Head of House) appointed by him as a deputy. Nowadays very little of the business of the Regent House is transacted at Congregations; most of it is done by publication (proposals are published and are deemed to be approved if not challenged within a specified period as described above), or by postal voting. The principal business of most Congregations nowadays is the conferment of degrees. Four Congregations held in June each year are intended for undergraduates proceeding to their first Degrees (usually the Bachelor of Arts which in Cambridge is the usual primary degree irrespective of subject): these Congregations are termed General Admission to Degrees. Other special Congregations are reserved for the conferment of Honorary Degrees, usually undertaken by the Chancellor.
