Admissions


Admission as a First-Degree Student
First-degree courses in Cambridge, irrespective of subject, lead to the BA Honours Degree, the only exception being the BEd Degree taken through Homerton College. The courses are flexible and make it possible for students to change to a different subject. As the admission of students is the responsibility of the Colleges, and not the University, applicants must first write to either the Admissions Tutor of a College of their choice or the Cambridge Intercollegiate Applications Office (CIAO) - now the Cambridge Admissions Office -, for a preliminary application form in the year before entry (See 'Further Information').

Applicants should first consult the Admissions Prospectus (available from CIAO) and will also need to complete a form from the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) - the centralised agency for applications to British universities. It is not necessary to have a definite choice of College. Further information of special importance to overseas applicants is obtainable from the Adviser to Overseas Candidates.

Those thinking of applying will also find the Alternative Prospectus prepared by students and published by the Cambridge University Students Union (CUSU) helpful. This complements the official prospectus, and copies are obtainable from CUSU.

Admission as a Graduate Student
Most graduate students undertake original research for the PhD degree, and are usually required to study in Cambridge for at least three consecutive years. There are also taught courses leading to the MPhil degree in certain subjects, which usually require one or two years of resident study. Details of these are also given in the Graduate Studies Prospectus.

A graduate student wishing to undertake research should apply, if possible before 31 March in the year of entry, to the Secretary, Board of Graduate Studies. Applicants should first consult the Graduate Studies Prospectus obtainable from the Board. The standard of entry is exceptionally high, and that those wishing to pursue research are expected to have a proposed topic, and in some cases to submit a summary of what they propose to do.

The MA degree in Cambridge is a special title, and cannot be taken as a qualification after a graduate course.

Cost of Study
For UK students the existing system of grants and loans for tuition and maintenance is currently the subject of a government review. Overseas students need to be able to show that they can meet the cost of University and College fees, which vary according to subject, as well as their living expenses.
