The Colleges in Cambridge

There are 31 Colleges in Cambridge. Three are for women (New Hall, Newnham and Lucy Cavendish) and two admit only graduates (Clare Hall and Darwin). The remainder house and teach all students enrolled in courses of study or research at the University.

The role of the Colleges in University life
Each College is an independent institution with its own property and income. The Colleges appoint their own staff and are responsible for selecting students, in accordance with University regulations. The teaching of students is shared between the Colleges and University departments. Degrees are awarded by the University.

Within each College, staff and students of all disciplines are brought together. This cross-fertilisation has encouraged the free exchange of ideas which has led to the creation of a number of new companies. Trinity and St John's have also established science parks, providing facilities for start-ups, and making a significant contribution to the identification of Cambridge as a centre of innovation and technology.

The role of the Colleges in student life
A College is the place where students live, eat and socialise. It is also the place where they receive small group teaching sessions, known as supervisions. The supervision system is one of the main reasons for the University's success in the external reviews of learning and teaching.

The Colleges and the University support access initiatives to encourage applications from able students from both state and independent schools. The most successful of these is the summer schools programme.

In addition to resources provided by the University, each College has its own library and sports facilities, and some have their own bar and theatre. Most Colleges have their own clubs and societies, offering a variety of non-academic activities for students to take part in.

Benefits of the College system for students
Teaching: The supervision system, where students receive tuition in small groups, is regarded as one of the best teaching models in the world. 
Accommodation: Almost all undergraduates live in College accommodation for the duration of their time at Cambridge. 
Welfare: A variety of support systems ensure that students are treated as individuals, allowing overseas students in particular to be fully integrated. This is one of the reasons that Cambridge has one of the lowest drop-out rates. 
Financial support: Many Colleges offer awards for their own members, in addition to funds available from the University. 
