Staff


University teaching is undertaken by Professors, Readers, Senior Lecturers, Lecturers and Assistant Lecturers, and there are also grades of research personnel, and of academically-related staff working in libraries, museums and the university offices. Essential supporting functions in all these areas are carried out by the University's assistant staff, and the Assistant Staff Office, jointly responsible to the Council and the General Board, looks after personnel matters in relation to them, under the management of the Personnel Officer. Personnel functions for academic staff are carried out directly by the General Board Division of the University Offices.

A distinction which has recently become more prevalent is the appointment of staff of all kinds on short-term 'unestablished' contracts, either because their funding comes from outside the University and is of fixed duration; or because they are appointed to carry out certain specified tasks which are known to be limited in scope and length. Many of these staff work under different employment conditions from 'established' staff, whether academic or assistant.

Academic staff, which include Professors, Senior Lecturers, Lecturers, Assistant Lecturers and certain categories of research staff, are appointed in varying ways by Boards of Electors or by the Appointments Committees of faculties and other bodies. The rules of procedure are very thoroughly defined, for example as to advertisement, to appointing practices, and to tenure. The establishment of offices (and permission to fill vacant ones) is the responsibility of the General Board. Thereafter the appointing body is autonomous in its choice of persons to fill vacant posts. There is a requirement for external electors in the case of Professorships, and for members outside the particular faculty concerned in the case of other posts. All Readerships and some Professorships in Cambridge are promotion appointments.

All these staff other than Professors and Readers may be appointed for a probationary period or periods, following which they may generally be appointed to the retiring age subject to satisfactory performance of their duties. Some posts (for instance those concerned solely with research) are restricted in tenure. There is now explicit provision for redundancy.

Administrative staff include staff of the central administration now forming part of a single unified department, the University Offices, of which the Registrary is the Head. The University Offices comprise four divisions - Registry Division , General Board Division, Finance Division and Estate Management and Building Service Division (EMBS), of which the Registrary, Secretary General, Treasurer and Director of EMBS (reporting to the Treasurer) are heads. In addition many departments and some faculties have a Secretary or Administrator together with supporting staff to undertake administration within academic areas of the University.

Assistant staff are appointed by Heads of Department and similar officers, according to rules of procedure laid down by the Assistant Staff Committee, advised by the Personnel Officer.
 

