The nerve centre 

All of Host Broadcast Services¡¯ equipment for switching and distributing signals are housed in one room, named the Master Control Room. It is the nerve centre where radio and television signals are managed before being beamed to the International Broadcast Centre 2 in Yokohama and countless destinations around the globe. 
As an HBS representative explains, every television image of the 2002 FIFA World Cup? that anybody in the world will see goes through the Master Control Room. 

¡°All the signals from the 10 Japanese stadiums and the 10 Korean stadiums are sent via our telecommunication partners to the Master Control Room in Seoul. We distribute the signals to the television and radio broadcasters so they can customise the program to their needs before and after the game and during half-time. Then the signals go to the satellite farm, and from there to the world.¡± 

The Master Control Area is a collection of three different parts ¨C the Main Control Room, the Telecommunication Room, the Commentary Switching Centre and the World Feed Distribution room. 

The Main Control Room is where all the main TV signals from all the stadiums and the unilateral signals for each broadcast partner are monitored and quality controlled before being distributed. 

In the Telecommunication Room, they make sure that the transmission of the signals is correct. It¡¯s managed jointly by HBS' telecommunication partners . 

¡°The Commentary Switching Centre,¡± says the HBS representative, ¡°is where we receive all the commentary from all the stadiums and redistribute them, and they have to make sure the commentaries are redistributed to the right broadcasters.¡± This is quite a feat of logistics, as a given match could have as many as 120 different commentary feeds coming in. 

¡°And we have a room for the World Feed Distribution, where we distribute the Extended Basic International Feed. 

¡°All the images that go out to the world go through this room.¡± 

